Emerging information that rape primarily occurs between acquaintances has not only exploded our understanding of this problem, but forced a reexamination of our notions of prevention. In recent years, the vast majority of rape prevention programs have taken the format of educational workshops, with the underlying assumption that change in rape supportive ideologies will decrease the actual incidence of sexual aggression. This article critically reviews such rape prevention education with particular focus on common techniques such as: "debunking" rape mythology, generating participant interaction, providing sexuality education and a feminist orientation, and avoiding confrontational approaches. Finally, theoretical and practical concerns are discussed regarding previous experiences of sexual victimization or perpetration, the conceptualization and use of outcome measures, issues of program facilitation, and processes underlying change in rape supportive ideologies. It is concluded that future research must seriously address these many issues through thoughtful conceptualization and rigorous experimentation, so that the promise of rape prevention can be fully realized. Within the American consciousness exists a stereotypic rape. The rape is perpetrated by a psychopathic man hiding in the bushes with a knife, waiting to attack an unsuspecting young woman as she walks by. The woman fights strenuously during the rape, and after the attack she proceeds immediately to her local police station to report the crime. When rape is assumed to fit such a stereotype, the prevention of rape is designed accordingly. Thus, rape prevention has historically involved such activities as shearing bushes, installing lights and alarm systems, or teaching women self defense. It has only been in recent history that work by Mary Koss and others has exploded this stereotype and shed light on the reality of rape in our culture. The monumental study conducted by Koss on 32 American college campuses revealed that not only had one in four women been the victims of rape or attempted rape, but 84% of these victims knew their attacker. Such results have been replicated consistently, and are now generally assumed to reflect the extent of sexual assault both on campus and in the more general population. In the context of this emerging information, rape is generally defined as sexual penetration with the use of force or threat of force (or those situations in which no force is required, as when the victim is mentally incapacitated through alcohol or drug use, mental disability, lack of consciousness, etc. Therefore, acquaintance rape is defined as rape that is committed by an individual known to the victim in some capacity: they could be friends, dates, lovers, former lovers or spouses, coworkers, neighbors, and so forth. As a result of this recent research, unprecedented levels of concern for the issue of acquaintance rape are now seen among medical and legal professionals, the media, and the general public. Yet an obvious lack of consensus remains about how to address the problem, because our new understanding of rape has challenged past assumptions and forced a reexamination of the very notion of rape prevention. Sexual assault prevention programming remains a confused, scattered, and sporadic enterprise with little scientific underpinning. Thus, a wide range of strategies is seen in the literature, including: increased campus lighting; self defense, counseling, and advocacy for women; educational presentations for high school students; community advertising campaigns; guided fantasy and role playing programs for college students; and rehabilitation programs for convicted rapists. Indeed, a comprehensive review of rape prevention included 1,140 possible strategies. Unfortunately, despite this wealth of potential strategies, theoretical elaboration and empirical evaluation of rape prevention has been scant. Consequently, little is known about the effectiveness of any particular strategy or program. Recently, one of the most common strategies for rape prevention has been the educational program targeting ideological change, typically involving college students or other young adults. To that extent, an emerging consensus is being forged around the notion that educational efforts are needed to challenge cultural supports for rape. The purpose of this article is to review the current status of these educational programs, to discern what has been tried and learned. Toward that end, databases in psychology and related fields (primarily sociology and education) from the past two decades were searched for examples of educational rape prevention programs. Only those that appeared in print were considered; unpublished manuscripts and conference presentations were generally not included. All educational programs characterize  as rape prevention were initially considered, but only those presented with evaluative efforts were included in this review. Hence, all available evaluation studies were included, regardless of format, overall quality, theoretical conceptualization, targeted population, use of control comparison groups, and so forth. Although not intending to minimize the importance of solely descriptive accounts of rape prevention, inclusion in this review required program evaluation toward the goal of evaluating, prioritizing, and modifying currently existing programs. Programs Targeting Female Audiences Perhaps the most common response to the problem of rape has historically involved installing better lighting and trimming shrubbery for better visibility, thus ignoring the fact that 80-90% of rapes are committed by acquaintances. Additionally, it is frequently argued that rape prevention requires teaching women assertiveness or self defense skills. Although rape supportive attitudes create a climate in which date rape can exist, it is the passivity and lack of assertiveness of many individuals [i.e., women] that often allows date rape to manifest itself. This argument is perhaps supported by research suggesting that more active or assertive responses can increase a woman’s chances of deterring a rape attempt. Unfortunately, even the most successful programs advocating female avoidance or resistance of rape, although ostensibly aimed at rape prevention, are perhaps better conceptualized as efforts toward deterrence. Because men who rape select potential victims on the basis of vulnerability, it makes sense that a deterred attempt will only result in the victimization of another, more vulnerable individual. Rape deterrence strategies can therefore only protect individual women (albeit with no guarantees), but can never reduce the vulnerability of women as a group. No one can be constantly and perfectly vigilant. Thus, no matter how well trained women become in avoidance, escape, and physical self defense, they will be vulnerable to sexual assault to the extent that there are men who will commit acts of sexual assault. Thus despite any success at deterrence, rape prevention strategies for women fail to function as real prevention, and one of their harmful side effects is the implicit (and often explicit) assumption that stopping rape is the responsibility of female victims rather than male perpetrators. Females need to be educated and provided with assertiveness strategies, but we should not forget that males are the perpetrators of rape. We are too often unwilling to hold men accountable for rape, and as a result, women are held responsible for men’s behavior and thus the problem of rape and the related issue of rape prevention. Although such programs for women might have value as a deterrence strategy, true rape prevention must target the real and potential perpetrators, thereby addressing the primary cause of rape itself men’s motivation to rape. A review of three rape prevention programs targeted toward women, which suggests that all such programs have been effective at increasing female participants awareness of rape and subsequently reducing their vulnerability. These evaluation efforts have relied almost exclusively on measures of attitudes and behavioral intentions reported immediately following program participation (with the notable exception of Hanson and Gidycz, who examined actual rates of sexual victimization among participants both before and several months after the program). Problems inherent in this evaluation strategy will be discussed at greater Critical review.  Examined the impact of vulnerability perceptions on undescribed risk taking behavior of college women, emphasis was placed on personalizing the program, but the strategy was not explicitly described. Objectives of the acquaintance rape prevention program were to increase participants awareness of the pervasiveness of sexual assault, to dispel common myths about rape, to educate participants regarding social forces that foster a rape supportive environment, to educate participants regarding practical strategies for preventing rape, to alter dating behaviors associated with acquaintance rape among program participants, to foster effective sexual communication for program participants, and to reduce the incidence of sexual assault in a 9 week period among program participants; undergraduate women were first provided with statistics, then completed a myth fact worksheet, followed by a video of events leading up to an acquaintance rape; discussion followed, along with a video modeling protective behaviors; finally, questions were entertained and resource information provided Women Against Rape. Workshops were implemented among urban women that included discussion of ﬁthe politics of rape and feminist prevention strategies, confrontation training and self defense; goals were empowerment of The authors suggested that personalizing‚ the program increased both the women’s perceptions of vulnerability and intentions to avoid risk taking behaviors 360 women in an introductory psychology course participated in the evaluation; all the women first completed the Sexual Experiences Survey, a dating behavior survey, a sexual communication survey, and a sexual assault awareness survey in the beginning of the academic quarter; the treatment group then participated in the program whereas the comparison group did not; finally, all the women again responded to the outcome measures 9 weeks later at the end of the quarter; students who participated in the prevention program increased their awareness of rape and decreased their involvement in situational factors associated with sexual victimization; however, sexual communication strategies did not differ between the two groups; for those without a history of sexual victimization, the prevention program decreased the incidence of such victimization during the quarter, but this was not the case for women with a history of either moderate or severe sexual victimization. Questionnaires were provided before and 3-6 months following workshop participation; women reported more accurate knowledge and less supportive attitudes about rape, more support for social change prevention women at both individual and social levels; the primary goal was to alter women’s perception and reality of themselves as vulnerable to rape; however, a secondary goal was to heighten community concern and responsiveness to the problem of rape tactics, and greater understanding of women’s oppression; they also reported greater willingness to confront their perpetrators, decreased fear, and heightened confidence in self-defense abilities; no such change was seen in a comparison group of community women who had not participated in the program length below, but are seen in virtually all of the rape education programs reviewed presently. Programs Targeting Mixed-Sex Audiences. Despite the shared cultural assumption that rape prevention is largely the responsibility of women, the majority of educational programs in this context have included both male and female participants. As the review of 15 such programs reveals, such interventions frequently focus considerable attention to issues of cross-sex communication and dating expectations some even emphasize the shared responsibility of men and women for acquaintance rape. As with the all female interventions, most mixed-sex programs have reported desirable change in rape supportive attitudes as a result of participation. A few exceptions to this pattern, however, are of particular interest and will be discussed within the context of empathy induction techniques below. Unfortunately, these evaluation efforts possess several limitations that seriously restrict their potential for informing generalized conclusions regarding effectiveness. First, these evaluations have relied heavily on standard attitudinal assessment immediately following the intervention, as did the all female interventions. Second, evaluation of several programs on rape awareness and preventionﬂ addressed topics of legal terms, biographical descriptions of a ‚typical rapist, rape trauma syndrome, prevention strategies, and available assistance; the program was conducted in a classroom setting and a second class served as a comparison group for evaluation 50 introductory psychology students (25 male, 25 female) received the Attitudes Toward Rape Questionnaire and Rape Empathy Scale preceding the program and after a 4 week follow up; despite the perception of program success among college students and staff, follow up responses showed no change in rape related attitudes; no change was also evident in a comparison class. College students took part in workshops of 5-25 participants in either residential settings, or as part of freshman orientation or a student organization; 24 myths and facts were presented in quiz format to stimulate discussion and encourage students to commit to choosing an answer, thereby examining personal beliefs in a supportive and informative environment; in some formats, the presenter(s) read answers and lead group discussion, in others the participants broke into small groups to reach consensus on items; discussion frequently covered safety precautions, resistance strategies, victim responses, acquaintance rape issues, needs and issues for special populations, significant others, and proactive prevention of rape Based on examination of consumer satisfaction, the authors suggested that ﬁthe number of requests for programs was indicative of their perceived value after many presentations numerous students and staff commented on the workshops effectiveness in heightening their awareness of sexual assault on campus; the authors cite a weakness of the program as the difficulties in attracting male attendance, which they suggested could be overcome with improved advertising and outreach toward groups such as athletic teams, fraternities, freshman orientation, etc. This program compared students in a 97 human sexuality students (34 male, 63 female) and 46 education students (13 male, 35 female) were provided the Rape Myth Acceptance Scale and Acceptance of Interpersonal Violence Scale in the 2nd human sexuality course with those in an education course to see if college students attitudes toward rape myths and the acceptance of interpersonal violence changed after taking a typical course in human sexuality; the program was expressly implemented with a non confrontational approach in 2 hours addressing topics of sexual oppression and sexual misuse and abuse. A study was conducted to examine the impact of actual and contemplated exposure to a rape survivor; undergraduates in mixed-sex groups were asked ﬁto consider a situation in which a close friend or relative came to them and told them that she had been sexually assaulted; then they were asked ﬁto describe their initial reaction and what action they would suggest that the sexual assault victim; students were also asked about actual acquaintance with a rape survivor. The authors implemented a date rape prevention program for high school students that was based on a feminist analysis of gender role socialization and is designed to help teenagers explore basic values and norms of American society and how these shape personal views on sexuality and sexual aggression; the 45-min lecture was presented by an experienced educator from a rape crisis program, and emphasized the role of gender role socialization in perpetuating sexual aggression; causes of rape were presented as lack of sexual communication, lack of re and 14th weeks of class; human sexuality students decreased their acceptance of rape myths but neither group changed their attitudes toward interpersonal violence; the authors cautioned that the effect size was small and that all students generally rejected the rape myths 151 students (100 females, 51 males) participated in the contemplation exercise either before or after completing a 30 item questionnaire developed from the Myths About Rape Scale; following such contemplation, women became more rejecting of rape myths, whereas men became less rejecting of them; this divergence widened the preexisting gap in women’s and men’s attitudes; for both women and men, those acquainted with a rape survivor were more rejecting of rape myths Prior to workshop participation, 378 high school students provided judgments about the acceptability of sexual coercion in 17 situations; a subsample of 188 students completed an identical posttest 6 weeks following the presentation; although gender was the leading predictor of judgments prior to workshop participation, level of experienced sexual coercion was after the program presentation; prior to the workshop, male participants were more tolerant of sexual coercion, whereas afterward those with experience of sexual coercion were, so that if, gender role expectations and peer pressure, and opportunistic situations. Examined the impact on college students attitudes toward rape after taking a course in human sexuality; only one day of the class specifically addressed sexual aggression; some classes were presented with standard lecture format dealing primarily with local rape laws; others were presented in an undescribed confrontational format. College students were exposed to either a live or videotaped workshop in a classroom setting; emphasis was on debunking common myths, providing accurate information about rape and a feminist reconceptualization of the problem; the presentation began with a fictitious rape scenario; use of a Solomon 4-group design allowed investigators to control for a number of confounds, including maturation, pretesting, history, loss of participants, instrumentation, statistical artifacts, etc. own experience, they had felt coerced, they will support coercion as normative younger students were more accepting of sexual coercion, a result used to argue for earlier intervention 
561 students in a human sexuality course and 155 in introductory psychology were given pretest and post test materials assessing rape related beliefs and attitudes from surveys; students attitudes in the two classes were comparable at pretest and diverged after class participation; human sexuality students only reported decreased tolerance for rape, greater certainty in identifying a rape depiction, and more liberal attitudes toward women; the confrontational format resulted in greater tolerance for rape among men 582 students in an introductory sociology class were included in a 4-group Solomon designﬂ using the Rape Supportive Attitudes Survey and the Rape Blame Scale; participation in the program generated positive attitude change, and most change was in beliefs about the ideological nature of rape; least change was seen in those regarding race; sex of participant was not a determinant of program outcomes; pretesting served as an additional intervention, since pretested groups 
showed greater attitude change. Undergraduates in a speech communication class participated in one of two programs; all participants viewed a 7-min videotape of media clips that are representative of print and TV advertising and use sexual themes to advertise clothing, perfume, and liquor, followed by scenes of a heterosexual couple on a date ending with sexual advances by the man and protestation by the woman; some of the students additionally participated in discussion sessions that included six opening questions, presentation of facts related to the video, and open discussion. A male and female facilitator presented a 35-min workshop that began with an undescribed consent scenario, after which students were then told to try to determine when and how consent to have sex takes place; after the scenario, the co facilitators recommended how men and women could prevent date rape. The guiding principle of workshop development was to increase awareness and generate discussions between men and women regarding date rape; the 50-min workshop emphasizes the shared responsibility 51 women and 45 men participated in the study in one of the two workshop formats; all responded to the revised Attitudes Toward Rape Scale following participation and a subset received an identical posttest; pretesting effects were reported, suggesting that positive attitude change occurred simply as a result of pretesting sensitivity; men who participated in either program format reported desirable attitude change with respect to beliefs of victim blaming and denial, but no difference was evident between the two formats; no such change was seen among female participants, possibly due to ceiling effects on women’s pretest responses 331 students in a health education course were randomly assigned to either a treatment or comparison group; all students provided posttest responses to the Date Rape Attitudes Survey (a forced-choice questionnaire of statements pertaining to date rape) immediately following participation (or non participation); attitudes of workshop participants were reported to be significantly less tolerant of rape than those in the comparison group; an interaction effect suggested that the program had a greater impact on men’s attitudes than women™s Responses were collected from 330 male and 314 female students following workshop participation; the vast majority of participants reported they felt comfortable discussing the topic in a mixed-sex environment; a male and female facilitator began with the 20-item forced choice Rape Attitudes and Perceptions quiz, which is later discussed, then a scenario is presented of a heterosexual dating couple to determine when and how consent takes place; finally, rape prevention recommendations were presented with critique. Undergraduates were exposed to a number of speeches in what was ostensibly an impression formation task; some students read a piece on the historical mistreatment of women; in an additional judgment task students read a depiction of either a stranger or acquaintance rape thought the work ship was not too explicit, felt favorable toward the workshop format, and considered the issue of date rape deserving of workshop attention; approximately half the participants suggested changes in workshop format, and a very small minority of students felt the workshop had placed the blame for the occurrence of date rape on their own gender. After reading the speech about women’s oppression, 80 female and 80 male students reported less perceived responsibility and enjoyment of a victim in an acquaintance rape depiction but no change was evident with perceptions of stranger rape; men who read the speech reported less likelihood of rape; no effect of speech exposure was seen on comparable judgments of a female drunk driver. A 50-min class presentation was facilitated by one woman and one man (facilitators were either rape crisis or residence hall counselors); instructional method included a combination of lecture, video presentations of date rape situations, plus sharing of a date rape experience by one of the presenters; information addressed rape’s impact, statistics, definitions, and reasons for not identifying forced sex as rape, cultural supports for rape, characteristics of offenders, prevention suggestions, and local resources; videotaped vignettes a date rape scenario to illustrate issues of opportunity, attitudes, and consent and a high school discussion to illustrate 821 students (503 female and 318 male) in an introductory health class participated in the study, conducted with a Solomon 4-group design and the Rape Supportive Attitudes Survey; pretests were conducted several days prior to the program and posttests were administered 1 month following; results suggested that the women, but not men, reported desirable attitude change not only as a result of program participation but also after pretesting assessment only; this divergent impact served to widen the preexisting gap between women’s and men’s rape related attitudes; in addition, ﬁthe number of victims and significant others seeking help gender perceptions of seduction versus rape; questions and discussion were encouraged throughout the program. The authors investigated educational debriefings for undergraduates after experimental exposure to sexually explicit depictions of consensual intercourse or violent portrayals of rape; students who read the rape story were given a brief written debriefing addressing rape myths and its impact on victims; students who read about consensual sex were given a debriefing about research in the area of human sexuality. This undergraduate workshop utilized a fast paced 15-min performance entitled Big Girls Don’t Cry that presents contemporary issues about assertiveness and dating; one group watched the dramatic performance only, whereas a second watched the performance and then participated in a 15-min discussion regarding sexual attitudes, gender scripts, and assertiveness; a third group participated in the discussion group only, whereas a fourth completed outcome measures without any program participation. The authors were interested in comparing two methods of education with the goal of rape attitude change; they showed one experimental group an undescribed 30-min videotape has tripled since rape awareness programs have been introduced in this classroom setting Following experimental exposure and educational debriefings, 70 male and 73 female undergraduates were asked to rate a newspaper account of a rape on various dimensions; after the rape exposure and debriefing, students were less likely to believe that women have a secret desire to be raped and that women’s behavior causes rape; they were also less likely to believe that ﬁnatural masculine tendencies, fear of homosexuality, or pornography are causes of rape 92 participants (56 female and 36 male) reported change in rape attitudes following the dramatic performance (with or without subsequent discussion); students who participated only in the discussion reported no such change; the performance method was more effective for students with less experience of sexual aggression; no change in levels of assertiveness was seen with any of the interventions, yet an interaction effect at a 5-week follow up suggested that assertiveness increased among participants with less experience of sexual aggression; greatest change was seen with both performance and discussion Undergraduate psychology students participated in the video group (24 women, 9 men), rape brochure group (24 women, 7 men), and comparison group (16 women, 9 men); and exposed a second group to an undescribed brochure that took approximately 10 min to read, titled What Women and Men Should Know About Date Rape; a comparison group read a brochure of comparable format regarding career planning issues ward Women Scale and a revised version of the Forcible Rape Scale were provided immediately before participating in the intervention and 1 week following such participation; positive attitude change was seen in all three groups suggesting that the intervention did not generate any impact beyond that of pretest sensitization Solomon 4-group design is described more generally in Campbell and Stanley. included the assessment of consumer satisfaction among participants. Such assessment fails to clarify whether the demonstrated effect indicates any real change in beliefs, attitudes, or behavior of participants. Based on modern conflict theory, it is possible to argue that the acceptance of rape myths is functional and therefore consumer satisfaction might be highest for programs that require no real change on the part of participants. Meanwhile, such programs afford the complacency of presumably ﬁdoing something to prevent rape. Evaluation of rape education programs must go beyond such measures of consumer satisfaction. Finally, one of the evaluations suggested that only a small minority of male and female program participants felt that the workshop had placed blame for the occurrence of date rape on their own gender. Although this result was presented as evidence of success for the program, some might question the appropriateness of this outcome among men. Programs Aimed at Men Despite the obvious logic of conducting rape prevention with men, such programs have only recently become popular, thereby receiving the attention they deserve. A distinction exists between interventions that are merely inclusive of men and those that are specifically designed for men. Instead of emphasizing open communication, sexual assertiveness and/or relationship expectations, interventions designed specifically for men emphasize the importance of male responsibility and the ability to empathize. Again, however, success is generally conceptualized as attitude change measured immediately following program participation. Furthermore, an interesting and instructive exception is noted in which attitude change was actually seen in the undesirable direction. Because all-male programs offer the greatest promise in truly reaching the potential of rape prevention, such programs offer particular interest for future intervention and evaluation. The relevant literature paints a picture in which the majority of rape education programs are successful in generating positive change in rape supportive attitudes and behaviors. Yet the accuracy of this picture is plagued by several important issues. First, the vision of programmatic success is called into question by publishing biases that might preclude the appearance of nonsignificant findings. Additionally, it is possible that individuals designing and implementing rape prevention programs are not generally those who publish evaluation reports in academic journals. More importantly, the vision of programmatic success is challenged by criticisms of the underlying rationale for rape prevention education. That is, the rationale for such programs rests on a number of assumptions. It is possible to change rape supportive beliefs and attitudes through education. Attitude change can yield desirable outcomes such as decreased sexual aggression, heightened empathy awareness for victims, and increased awareness resistance by women. There is considerable evidence reviewed here that educational programming can reduce the endorsement of rape supportive attitudes, thus providing support for the first assumption. Support for the second assumption, however, is less direct. There is, for example, substantial literature documenting a link between rape supportive ideology and sexually aggressive behavior. On the basis of this work, a recent review concluded that the relationship between rape myth acceptance and sexually aggressive behavior might be the truly critical one in this area. Unfortunately, such evidence only reveals associations, rather than causality, and therefore does not Critique of underlying rationale. College men participated in a 1% hr workshop emphasizing the role of empathy in attitude change; rape myths were addressed for all participants; some listened to an audiotape of a female rape victim describing her experience whereas others heard an audiotape of a young man de- scribing his rape by another adolescent male. A program for fraternity men was developed with the goals ﬁto increase self-awareness, to stimulate values clarification, to dispel the many myths and misconceptions concerning rape, and to overcome the ignorance that perpetuates the crime of rape; the 2-hr program entitled Rape Awareness for Men was developed by the inter fraternity council to deal with the issue from the male perspective; the format began with a questionnaire to assess rape awareness; lecture/discussion addressed such topics as legal definitions, local national statistics, and sociology of the crime; two films were shown; then small-group discussion focused on prevention and other concerns. Men were educated 54 men responded to the Personal Attributes Questionnaire, the Rape Supportive Attitudes Survey, the Illinois Rape Myth Acceptance Scale, two measures of rape empathy, and indices of likelihood to use force or rape; contrary to expectations, the empathy intervention did not result in any differences in general empathy, rape empathy, or rape related attitudes; men asked to empathize with the female victim actually reported greater likelihood of sexual aggression Assessment of consumer satisfaction was conducted only; the authors described a number of positive outcomes: feedback received from participants indicated a change of attitudes on the topic of rape and women in general; IFC received much positive reinforcement and publicity for the sponsorship and development of the program; two national fraternities expressed interest to further develop the program and include it in their educational programming nationwide; and the program resulted in a timely and meaningful opportunity for fraternity members to work through their concern for social issues. Among 75 undergraduate men, those who participated in the program reported decreased acceptance of the Rape Supportive Attitudes Survey. No such change was evident among a comparison group who completed evaluation materials without workshop involvement; the effect size was greater among men who reported less aggressive sexual histories; follow up after 1 month indicated no differences between the two groups in willingness to volunteer time 
to a women’s safety project. The purpose of the study was to examine the attitudes, reactions and responses of police officials to rape victims before and after a special training program; officers participated in small groups while on duty, and program format included lecture, discussion and demonstration with the following increase awareness of the policeman’s own feelings and attitudes about the crime, the offenders and the victims of rape, provide information about the physical and emotional trauma experienced by the victim, provide factual information about the need for, and the procedure of, the physical examination at the hospital, provide information about the legal aspects of the crime and the policeman’s role, and develop interviewing skills and intervention techniques so that the policeman might be of help to the victim while carrying out his legal responsibilities, The College men were exposed to a 14-min pre-experimental debriefing film with professional actors discussing either the myths, facts, statistics, and consequences of rape (rape education) or the value of consideration and respect in sexual encounters (sex education); both films used little known facts to spark 21 patrol officers from a large midwestern city participated in the study and were interviewed for 15-60 min both before and after program participation; following the program, officers: retained the belief that women share responsibility for the crime, increased their recognition of victim trauma, increased their personal feelings about the crime’s seriousness, increased their knowledge of legal and medical procedures, increased their felt need for more extensive training in handling rape cases and victims, and developed ﬁan overall more empathic and understanding approach to the rape victim. 105 undergraduate males provided pretest, posttest, and 2-week follow up responses to the Rape Myth Scale, the Likelihood of Rape Index, and additional questions about dating, sex, and rape; following the films, students viewed clips from commercial movies depicting sexual violence, consensual sex, or nature scenes; students then made a series of judgments regarding a newspaper account of a rape trial and concluded with a post experimental film to debrief with further discussion of rape myths and the consequences of pornographic materials
Developed a 2-hr ﬁexperientialﬂ program for men; 20 min of didactic presentation addressed rape myths and facts with time for discussion; 40 min of guided empathy activities included listening to the story of a male rape victim and a man whose roommate is involved in sexual coercion; efforts were made to avoid intellectualization and emphasize emotional responses. Male undergraduates participated in Man to Man About Rape, a program designed to educate men about male socialization, intimacy, violent behavior; a didactic component addressed gender development and intimacy along with the use of a film; the experiential small group component involved discussion, and several activities, including an exploration of how men’s bodies are objectified and emotions repressed and a sexual role reversal to examine the objectification of women; the authors theorized that repression of emotions is one factor leading to aggression, so that teaching men to express emotions is one way of preventing rape myths, and men who viewed either of the pre experimental debriefing films (rape or sex education) decreased rape myth acceptance following the final experimental debriefing; these effects persisted at a 2 week follow-up; men who viewed the debriefing film also judged a victim in a rape depiction more favorably and judged the perpetrator of the rape more harshly 24 undergraduate males were split into two groups, one of which responded to Field’s Attitudes Toward Rape Scale both before and after workshop participation; a second group responded only following participation; no pretesting effects were evident but students reported positive attitude change following program involvement. The male led program reached approximately 30 % of campus men through outreach, advertising, and coordination with athletic teams and the inter fraternity council; although only consumer satisfaction was assessed, the authors suggested that men began to understand how their own bodies are objectified and make connections to the objectification of women; men also allegedly increased their understanding of the destructive aspects of male socialization; the men increased their willingness to participate in the program, and ﬁreported feeling less defensive and more open to asking questions in malled presentations; finally, the authors noted that many past participants were currently involved with the design and implementation of future programs bear directly on the question of whether attitude change can actually reduce either sexual aggression or other rape supportive behaviors. Furthermore, recent work has critiqued the notion of a clear or lawful link between attitudes and behavior, thereby challenging the very foundation upon which rape prevention programs are built. To that extent, the importance of further research into this attitude behavior link cannot be understated within this particular context, and it is clear that this question is one with which the field of rape prevention must struggle in a meaningful and ongoing way. Rape prevention efforts have also been limited by their almost exclusive reliance on college participants. This focus has occurred for a number of reasons, both theoretical and logistic. As with other fields of research, college students provide an easily accessible population for academic investigators. Yet college students constitute a population of particular interest for this area based on other reasons as well: because the college years happen to coincide with the greatest period of risk for rape. Of course, this heightened risk implies that many college aged men have already established their patterns of sexual behavior, including sexual aggression. Therefore, while retaining attention to the critical risk group of college aged women and men, future efforts must also include additional age groups especially younger students to intervene before patterns of sexual behavior are begun. Restriction to campus populations. Despite the considerable caution needed to review such a small and fragmented field of research, it remains necessary to examine past efforts for future guidance in the field of rape prevention. Toward that end, a preliminary attempt is made to summarize common elements of rape education, to discuss some of the relevant theoretical and practical issues, and to provide direction for future research in this area. Specifically, this review critically examines such common techniques in rape prevention education as: debunking rape mythology, generating participant interaction, providing sexuality education and a feminist orientation, and avoiding confrontational approaches. Unfortunately, despite their frequent use in rape prevention programs, these techniques remain virtually unexamined either theoretically or empirically. Addressing Rape Mythology Review of present efforts suggests that education explicitly targeting the misinformation of rape mythology is one of the most widely used techniques in rape education programs, and it is the strategy most commonly associated with desirable attitude change. Several authors have even provided the myths and facts in an interactive quiz format. Unfortunately, because the specific materials are generally unavailable for these programs, it is often unclear how the range of myths discussed varies between presentations. Furthermore, although most of the programs addressing rape mythology have reported positive attitude change following program participation, it is not altogether clear how the rape myths presented in the intervention map onto those in the post-intervention assessment. Despite the general consensus that such an approach produces desirable attitude change, the success of this technique must be at least partly attributable to the almost exclusive reliance on rape myth scales for outcome assessment. Thus, the effect could likely be due to demand characteristics involved with discussing and then assessing endorsement of virtually identical rape myth statements. Alternatively, the effect could indicate true change; however, it is presently unknown whether such change has more general implications for thought and behavior. Future work can only address this issue by moving beyond traditional attitude scales as outcome measures, an issue addressed extensively below. Furthermore, the use of comparison groups can provide additional information regarding differential outcomes and the role of demand characteristics. Interactive Participation Following unsuccessful efforts to change attitudes through lecture presentations, concluded that such strategies were insufficient to implement attitude change. The authors argued for the introduction of new, more dynamic, vivid interactive program formats to enhance the desired effects of consciousness raising, attitude change, and empathy toward rape. Others have agreed that programs with the greatest effectiveness involve interactive participation such as role- playing and peer counseling, especially if the goals of the program include behavioral change. As the review indicate, participant interaction is an element common to many rape education programs and one that is generally reported to co occur with desirable attitude change. Examples of such involvement include the use of group discussion in most programs, role playing, and interactive dramatic performance. For example, male participants rated themselves as less comfortable immediately following the lecture material than they did following subsequent interactive discussion. Such interaction apparently played an important role in addressing the men’s concerns, thereby easing their discomfort. Perhaps this process is one that renders interactive programs more successful than others. However, the idea that interaction increases the likelihood of attitude change is challenged by the findings that discussion did not enhance the impact of programs involving dramatic performance or videotaped presentation. Clearly, future research must examine the effect, and process of interaction in rape education, with special focus on the role of discussion as the most common technique for inducing participant interaction. Sex Education and Feminist Orientation One common understanding of acquaintance rape theorizes that it is an issue of sexual misunderstanding, with solutions anchored in sex education or training in sexual communication. In support of this idea, for example, two studies have reported that a semester in basic sex education has positively influenced rape supportive beliefs and attitudes. Thus, to the extent that acquaintance rape is considered an issue of sexual misunderstanding, education in human sexuality can be considered a reasonable solution. Yet if acquaintance rape is truly an issue of power and dominance as feminists have theorized, no discussion of human sexuality will be sufficient without an explicit exploration of gender inequality and male violence against women. Furthermore, women who are sexually victimized communicate about sexuality as clearly as those who are not victimized, but men who choose to perpetrate sexual aggression simply ignore the communication in pursuit of their own goals. To that extent, sexuality education might be insufficient to influence rape related attitudes or behavior in the absence of material specifically addressing sexual violence. Clearly, training in sexual communication might be an ineffective strategy of rape prevention if indeed perpetrators simply choose to ignore the most successful efforts at verbal negotiation. Consistent with these ideas, an explicit discussion of gender roles and the relative status of women appears to be related to desirable change in rape supportive attitudes. Furthermore, upon closer examination it is revealed that the two studies reporting successful attitude change as a result of sexuality education involved programs that included explicit attention to issues of sexual aggression. In conclusion, further research must examine which of the many components involved in sexuality education have exerted the previously demonstrated influence on rape supportive attitudes. Of paramount importance is the determination of whether sex education can impact rape related attitudes without an explicit discussion of rape or gender inequality, and whether training in sexual communication can result in decreased risk for sexual victimization or perpetration. Empathy Induction Despite the presumed importance of empathy induction in rape education, its role in such interventions is not presently understood. Because empathy leads to more situational attributions for the behavior of others, it is reasonable to suggest that individuals with more empathy for victims will be less likely to attribute rape to personal characteristics such as victim appearance or behavior, and more likely to blame the man or society for the attack. Among women, this idea has gained empirical support; all three programs aimed at increasing women’s empathy for rape victimization have reported desirable attitude change. However, among men the picture is not so clear. Three programs for men have reported desirable attitude change with a strategy of empathy induction, whereas another two have not. The reason for this discrepancy is especially unclear because the methods of successful and unsuccessful programs were rather similar. For example, in one program men were asked to imagine themselves as rape victims or as witnesses to sexual coercion, whereas in another they were asked to contemplate hearing that a friend or relative had just been raped. The men reported desirable attitude change with the former but not the latter technique. To clarify the issue, Berg directly compared these two empathy induction techniques. Among her sample of undergraduates, asking men to imagine themselves as rape victims did not produce attitude change, whereas asking them to empathize with a victimized friend did. Unfortunately, this attitude change was toward greater acceptance of rape myths and increased likelihood to sexually aggress. Such a result flies in the face of commonly presumed effectiveness with empathy induction in men’s rape education. Based on her findings, Berg argued, Given that acquaintance rape is a crime where the victim is female, males confronted with the task of empathizing with an acquaintance rape victim will more naturally assume the observer or aggressor role. This process may account for the finding that men consider acquaintance rape a less serious offense than do women. Because of this difference, men may have some predisposition to respond non empathically to a rape victim, and efforts at inducing male empathy for rape victimization must take this possibility into account. Perhaps overcoming men’s predisposition toward perpetrator identification requires an amount of time for processing possible only in long term interventions. A more effective means of education might be found in extended programs that explore sexual coercion in depth; it may not be reasonable to expect attitudes that have developed over many years to be changed by a few hours of education. Others have also argued that time constraints might constitute the primary limiting factor in the effectiveness of prevention programs, and this limitation is a critical one to consider in this field of almost universally short-term interventions. Future work must explicitly examine the question of male empathy, to determine which conditions are necessary to reduce undesirable and unsupportive attitudes toward rape victims. Until such time, the implementation of these techniques based on their commonly assumed, but empirically undemonstrated, utility must either proceed with extreme caution or cease altogether. Confrontational Approaches Fischer concluded that the use of a confrontational format decreases the likelihood of success in rape prevention programs, even leading to undesirable backlash effects in her evaluation study. This conclusion was perhaps further supported by the positive attitude change seen in a program deliberately designed to be non confrontational. It makes sense that inducing defensiveness and alienation in participants does not lead to desirable attitude change; perceived attack does not generally yield enthusiastic cooperation. Unfortunately, there is a common misconception that rape education inevitably involves and encourages confrontation; indeed, it is often argued that feminist rape education simply perpetuates Victorian era gender stereotypes by portraying men as sexual brutes and women their helpless victims. This misconception represents one possible explanation for the low attendance at most voluntary rape prevention programs especially by men. In this regard, it is important to note that although educational programs challenging rape culture do require confrontation of established ideologies, such interventions do not necessitate a style of personal confrontation. Neither do such interventions necessitate personal confrontation among participants as a measure of success. Indeed, it is possible that participation in rape education programs of longer duration would allow greater time to meaningfully process the material as well as sufficient context to establish trusting relationships among program participants. Such time and security might be two of the essential elements needed to generate the respect and open communication desired between the sexes. Future research must address this concern, by experimentally manipulating the style of presentation and assessing differential outcomes. Because this issue forms the basis of a widely held misconception regarding rape prevention, it is a particularly important one to understand for maximal success in this field. Unfortunately, one element that appears to limit the potential impact of rape education is participants past experiences of sexual victimization and perpetration. Greater experience of sexual coercion increased participants resistance to messages encouraging attitude change. Furthermore, Women without a history of sexual victimization were at decreased risk for such victimization following their program, whereas no such change was seen with survivors of sexual victimization. Although it is possible that past sexual victimization has functioned in some rape education efforts to decrease the likelihood of change among participants, it is also possible that such personal experiences might serve in some instances as challenging but motivating factors for women in voluntary programs. Again, a discrepancy in impact might be observed between traditional programs of only an hour or two and those of longer duration. That is, perhaps the greater involvement in programs of a longer duration might allow women who have personally experienced sexual victimization to overcome the initial emotional obstacles and deal with victimization experiences in a meaningful way that fosters significant change. With respect to the experience of sexual perpetration among men, concluded that more desirable attitude change was seen among those men who reported less aggressive sexual histories. Unfortunately, this is the only study to date that has examined the influence of this vital factor. Clearly, both of these factors past experience of sexual victimization or perpetration constitute issues that are essential for a complete understanding of the process and outcomes of rape education. Further research must seek to differentiate the moderating influence of each and explicate their subsequent implications for theory and practice in the field of rape prevention. To the extent that such programs are likely to be less effective with individuals who have experienced sexual victimization or perpetration, it is possible that techniques should be expressly developed for this common and more resistant group of individuals. Perhaps strategies that are effective with these particularly resistant individuals will also work with the more general population, whereas the reverse will not be true successful techniques for the general population might not always work for individuals with victimization or perpetration histories. Given the universally high rates of sexual victimization and perpetration, these issues are clearly critical for the future of rape prevention programming and deserve much more serious consideration than they have previously enjoyed. In addition to the specific literature regarding rape education reviewed above, the design and implementation of any educational evaluation necessitates a theoretical perspective on the formation and change of beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors. Clearly, any suggestion that attitude change is easy is simply wrong. Attitudes are formed over a long history of direct and indirect experience with an attitude object. Second, attitudes are not generally the result of mere exposure but are typically theorized to be functional for the individuals holding them this is perhaps particularly true in the domain of rape mythology. To that extent, attitudes will generally remain resistant to influence attempts, and this resistance has both cognitive and motivational components. For example, it is suggested when a communicator advocates the extreme position that an audience must change their attitudes, influence attempts are likely to produce reactance and oppositional outcomes. Furthermore, attitudes are generally considered more resistant to change when they are held with greater intensity and commitment, as well as heightened personal importance. In this particular context, it is likely that beliefs regarding rape will indeed be held with heightened intensity and commitment, and to that extent resistance would seem to be virtually inevitable when attempting to produce change. Unfortunately, only one theory has seriously addressed the issue of resistance to attitudinal change. Theory of inoculation was proposed to address this question, and it posits that although similar in initial impact, two sided arguments remain more resistant to change in the long term than one sided messages. That is, exposure and attack of counter messages in the initial communication are hypothesized to serve as inoculation for individuals against future counter messages. Although there are no easy answers to the question of resistance to attitudinal change, it clearly deserves consideration in any educational intervention and preliminary recommendations might include the use of apparently balanced rather than biased educational strategies. Because of the difficulties in overcoming resistance to attitudinal change, we must examine the theoretical perspectives and empirical information regarding the influence process to maximize the likelihood of producing successful outcomes. For example, likelihood model offers an empirically based perspective on persuasion that incorporates variables with both facilitating and inhibiting moderating influences. More recently, a theoretical conceptualization of attitude formation and change that also has important implications for educational interventions. Finally, a variety of characteristics of communication source and message have been associated with greater likelihood of producing successful attitude change, and these variables require consideration in the design of future rape prevention programs. To address the limitations of previous attitude theories, a more empirically based conceptualization of the influence process has been offered. As stated previously, their elaboration likelihood model consequently offers useful theoretical and empirical information that can be applied to the field of rape prevention education. For example, the model appears useful for the field as a conceptual framework to specify the types of variables to manipulate and assess in educational evaluation. First, the importance of a number of factors in the persuasion process, including: individual motivation, direct exposure/knowledge/expertise, task importance/personal relevance, time pressure, distractions, anxiety, and exposure to unexpected message content. All of these variables have been associated with the relative likelihood of argument based processing, and are thus important to optimize for increased effectiveness. Second, the authors have documented a number of variables thought to influence peripheral route processing. These factors include perceived source expertise and consensus information. Clearly, successful prevention programs will need to address and incorporate these many variables to increase the likelihood of change among participants rape-supportive thought and behavior. In contrast with the more elaborate specificity of earlier models, contemporary conceptualizations of attitude theory represent a more general, schematic understanding of the theoretical issues such models also return the construct of attitude to its traditional theoretical preeminence. Specifically, theorize attitude to be an inferred construct, which is seen as the primary force mediating cognitive, affective, and behavioral responses to stimuli denoting an attitude object. Cognitive, affective, and behavioral responses are subsequently viewed as expressions of the underlying attitude this attitude represents only a general evaluative essence with respect to the attitude object. Finally, proposed a complementary model of attitude formation and change that includes cognitive, affective, and behavioral processes. It is clear that effective influence attempts in the field of rape prevention will need to consider each process hypothesized as important in conceptualization of attitude theory. To that extent, application of the theory yields three important conclusions in this context. First, their conceptualization underscores the importance of an individual’s attitude as an underlying evaluative orientation, in contrast with the earlier emphasis on beliefs as the fundamental cognitive structures. Program participants never begin as blank slates but carry with them considerable attitudinal baggage that is both deeply ingrained and powerful in moderating the impact of any persuasion attempt. This attitudinal orientation will vary between individuals and groups, and should guide the tailoring of any rape education program for a particular audience. Second, the theory suggests that attitude change can occur through any of the three antecedent processes cognitive, affective, and behavioral. Successful rape prevention programs can therefore take advantage of each processing route. For example, in addition to providing information through the cognitive medium, rape prevention programs can also address emotional issues underlying participant resistance. They can also generate specific behaviors by participants through interactive exercises, in the hope of pushing along the process of attitudinal change. Finally, the theory highlights the importance of cognitive, affective, and behavioral responses in assessing a comprehensive profile of outcomes from any educational intervention. This conclusion echoes the call for increased and improved outcome assessment to be discussed below. All of these recommendations flow directly from the theoretical literature regarding attitude formation and change. They therefore hold great potential for informing the improvement of rape prevention education. In addition to presenting theoretical models for attitude formation and change, a brief discussion is warranted regarding some of the characteristics of communication source and message that have been empirically associated with greater effectiveness in influence attempts. First, multiple sources of persuasion have been associated with greater impact than single  communicators. Such multiple sources can be incorporated easily into educational interventions by using more than one instructor. Second, various communicator characteristics are positively associated with heightened influence, such as perceived expertise, trustworthiness, status, likability, and attractiveness. These characteristics clearly merit consideration when designing instructional content and style for rape prevention programs. With respect to message characteristics, repetition appears to be associated with influence in a curvilinear fashion. That is, messages have increased impact when the number of exposures varies from one to three, however, increasing the number of exposures beyond three is associated with decreasing influence. In addition, for audiences predisposed toward message content, it appears that one sided arguments are more effective, whereas two sided arguments are preferable for those predisposed to disagree with the message. All of these factors are obviously important to consider when designing and evaluating any educational intervention for rape prevention, as well as tailoring a program for particular audiences with known characteristics. Rape prevention education clearly holds great potential in challenging public misconceptions and tolerance of rape possibly even with decreasing the prevalence of actual sexual aggression. Yet such interventions must be subject to the type of scrutiny and ongoing evaluation that has been previously neglected. First, proper experimentation must be conducted with these programs, in which the element under investigation is manipulated and various outcomes are compared. Second, a number of concerns must be addressed, including: the lack of clear goals for rape prevention programs, the neglected distinction between statistical and clinical significance in change outcomes, the lack of follow-up assessment, the unaddressed issue of social desirability in outcome measures, and the use of low risk populations. These many recommendations are vital for the future success of rape prevention, yet other areas of concern include: the conceptualization and use of outcome measures, questions of who facilitates rape education programs, and the processes underlying change in rape supportive ideologies. Outcome Measures Fundamental to the success of rape prevention evaluation is the question of which outcome measures are appropriate for assessing change. As stated repeatedly, past evaluations have relied almost exclusively on written response measures, frequently questionnaires of rape beliefs and attitudes. This strategy is based on the previously stated assumption that changes in rape related attitudes are directly related to changes in sexually aggressive behavior. However, rape prevention programs have not generally assessed changes in actual sexual aggression because accurately measuring reductions in the incidence of rape is a monumental, long term, and possibly unattainable goal. Yet understanding the impact of rape prevention programs on actual rape incidence represents the ultimate goal in this field and must be seriously pursued to determine whether well intentioned efforts are having an effect on actual sexual aggression that is positive, negligible, or even negative. To assess rape proclivity indirectly, proposed a number of behavioral measures, including the punishment of female confederates in learning experiments and conformity paradigms where the participant is placed in a group determining rape as justifiable. As an interesting example of such assessment, have recently developed a measurement technique for conversational domineeringness among men a male communication style operationalized by one up manship, criticism, denigration, bragging, and verbally aggressing against female conversational partners. The authors have reported that this construct is associated with self reported sexual aggression, thereby yielding promise for 
use in the evaluation of rape prevention programs. That is, if such behaviors are related to behavioral sexual aggression yet devoid of the logistic difficulties in assessing actual rape incidence, they constitute outcomes with information regarding the way in which men truly interact with women. Of course, reduction of rape incidence is the explicit goal of rape prevention programs; however, a wide range of implicit ones might include more directly measurable behaviors. For example, willingness to participate in a future acquaintance rape workshop could serve as an indicator of change, as could willingness to help anti rape causes by volunteering money or time. Willingness to seek help regarding personal experiences of sexual victimization could serve as an important outcome of rape education, although increased reporting or help seeking by rape survivors could create the false impression that rape education fosters a heightened incidence of the problem. In addition, conceptualized women’s experience of sexual victimization as a variable of interest, and these authors assessed risk factors for victimization such as dating behaviors and sexual communication. Outcome measures could also be developed to assess support for peers with victimization experiences, personal confrontation of sexist and rape supportive comments, or thought and behavior regarding the female fear of rape. Finally, outcomes could be assessed with judgments about particular rape cases, and analog methods could measure behaviors that would otherwise be unobservable. Although the field must reduce its almost exclusive reliance on attitudinal outcome measures, such measures do nonetheless constitute an area of interest and importance to the field. Furthermore, in addition to the measures of rape attitudes used in the vast majority of previous efforts, outcome measures could assess other beliefs and attitudes theorized as rape supportive, such as attitudes toward women, gender roles, and sexual inequality. Finally, to provide a rich expression of ideological change, participants could write a story about the typical rape victim, or hypothetical events between characters following an expression of sexual non consent. Outcome measures and gender of participants. In addition to improving the range and quality of outcome measures, future research could also evaluate change with relation to group differences among program participants. Obviously, gender of the program participants constitutes one critically important variable moderating the influence of rape education programs. Yet despite the obvious importance of gender as a moderating variable, the theoretical and practical implications of this influence have not generally been articulated. Clearly, men and women react differently to rape education programs based on their differential relationship to the topic. Furthermore, although it appears obvious that the underlying purpose and goals of rape prevention programs differ by gender, so might the effectiveness of specific materials, intervention strategies and techniques, communication style, program facilitators and context, time length, and so forth. Of particular importance is the question of how to identify and communicate the payoff for men in eliminating sexual violence. Specifically, why would men be motivated to give up the power over women that is gained via the incidence and threat of rape? In contrast, women’s motivations and payoff for rape prevention are more obvious. Yet neither of these issues has received the consideration they deserve with respect to the differential goals, strategies, and techniques in rape education programs for women versus men. It is reasonable to suggest, for example, that the examination of these differences might support the conclusion that single-sex programs are a more appropriate format than those with participants of both sexes. That is, because some men are rape perpetrators and many women rape survivors, it is possible that the issues and techniques relevant for each gender are too different to reconcile within a single program format. Outcome measures and other group differences. In addition to the obvious variable of participant gender, some authors have argued 
that socioeconomic and cultural variables might also affect rape vulnerability and response to rape prevention programs. To that extent, evaluations should be conducted to determine program relevance for various ethnic, cultural, or socioeconomic groups; such work could guide change toward increased effectiveness. In addition, the examination of a police training program constitutes the single effort toward evaluating education among 
populations with such a critical impact on rape victims. Future work must begin to examine other such important populations as legal and medical personnel, rape crisis volunteers, and counseling staff who have frequent contact with rape survivors. Conclusions regarding outcome measures. Clearly, much conceptual and empirical work is needed to develop appropriate outcome measures for rape prevention programming. Attention must focus not only on the issue of which outcome measures to use, but also when to use them and with whom. Furthermore, future research must address the general lack of follow-up demonstrating any longevity of change. Several programs have conducted follow-up investigations, but most occur only a few weeks after program participation. In this climate of increasing economic pressures, the future of rape prevention programs may well depend on 
our ability to empirically demonstrate their utility and longevity of impact beyond more than a few weeks. Appropriate development and utilization of outcome measures constitute a necessary part of this important evaluative effort. Program Facilitation Another important area for future research pertains to the issue of rape education facilitators. Several authors spoke directly to the need for male facilitators when working with male audiences; they have suggested that an all male environment might be a safer one for men to express greater openness and honesty around such sensitive issues. Toward that end, several authors have recommended research to compare the effectiveness of male versus female facilitators of rape education programs. In addition, several authors have recommended that campus programs be facilitated by peers who are respected leaders, to generate positive peer pressure for change as well as modeling of alternative attitudes and behaviors. Clearly, the issue of who facilitates rape education is an important one, yet the advantages of same gender environments and peer facilitators remain unexamined empirically. Finally, described a model of change with rape misconceptions that depends on subjective weights ascribed to both communicator and receiver. The author argued that informational campaigns are likely to lead to undesirable boomerang effects unless specific precautions are taken to overweight the message of the communicator. Such overweighting can be achieved through perceived similarity between communicator and receiver opinions, the accomplishment of change in relatively small increments, and the perception of greater numbers and diversity among communicators. Although empirically unexamined in this context, many of these concerns echo those in the more general persuasion literature discussed previously. To that extent, those recommendations could be used to guide research into facilitator selection. Furthermore, it is possible that future work could explain the relative success of programs theoretical model versus others. Process of Change in Rape Education Finally, a completely new area for future research pertains to the process of how rape education leads to desirable outcomes. For example, how do rape myth presentations lead to successful attitude change? Which myths are easiest or most beneficial to change? Which presentation method can lead to the most powerful change outcomes? For example, reported that the beliefs most amenable to change in their educational intervention pertained to the sociological and ideological nature of rape, whereas those 
most resistant to change dealt with issues of race. Such results suggest a possible hierarchy of resistance regarding beliefs about rape - one that might be essential to take into account when designing and evaluating rape education programs. One possible methodology to assess such underlying 
processes would be to collect written reactions from participants throughout the course of a longer term intervention. Other methods are also possible, yet it is clear that such efforts are needed to understand the underlying process of change in rape education programs. This review appears to present more questions than answers. To the extent that future research vigorously pursues these issues through experimentation and evaluation, however, rape education will likely improve with the ever evolving interface of theory, research, and practice. There are many benefits of such programs. At a basic level, they increase individual and campus wide awareness of appropriate resources in the event of a sexual assault. Also the programs allow victims in the audience to realize that they are not alone and that many others have endured similar experiences. Finally, the programs impart knowledge, which is a form of empowerment. Empowerment enables one to cope effectively by using new strategies to reduce the chances of a sexual assault, and it can help change attitudes that tend to place blame on the victim and allow sexual assault to continue. I hope review and guidance for the field of rape prevention can help it attain these ideals and work toward realizing the promise of truly eliminating sexual violence. The vast majority of rape victims are identified as female and perpetrators as male. This should not, however, restrict our attention and empathy for male survivors of sexual assault, a very hidden population. The term acquaintance rape is generally not assumed to include incest (sexual abuse or assault between family members), authority rapes (such as those perpetrated by teachers, coaches, doctors, etc.), spousal rape, or assaults on children. In addition, there is some lack of clarity as to when exactly a stranger becomes an acquaintance, but for general purposes an acquaintance is considered someone known to the victim prior to the attack. The construct of rape myths is defined as attitudes or generally false beliefs about rape that are widely and persistently held, and that serve to deny and justify male sexual aggression against women. Unfortunately, the rape prevention literature has generally failed to distinguish between the construct of rape myths and other rape attitudes. Future work must explore and clarify this often neglected distinction. There is, however, an additional reason for including men in rape prevention efforts estimates suggest that 1-770 of men will become the victims of acquaintance sexual assault. 