Emerging information that rape primarily occurs between acquaintances has not only exploded our understanding of this problem, but forced a reexamination of our notions of prevention. In recent years, the vast majority of rape prevention programs have taken the format of educational workshops, with the underlying assumption that change in rape supportive ideologies will decrease the actual incidence of sexual aggression. This article critically reviews such rape prevention education with particular focus on common techniques such as: "debunking" rape mythology, generating participant interaction, providing sexuality education and a feminist orientation, and avoiding confrontational approaches. Finally, theoretical and practical concerns are discussed regarding previous experiences of sexual victimization or perpetration, the conceptualization and use of outcome measures, issues of program facilitation, and processes underlying change in rape supportive ideologies. It is concluded that future research must seriously address these many issues through thoughtful conceptualization and rigorous experimentation, so that the promise of rape prevention can be fully realized. Within the American consciousness exists a stereotypic rape. The rape is perpetrated by a psychopathic man hiding in the bushes with a knife, waiting to attack an unsuspecting young woman as she walks by. The woman fights strenuously during the rape, and after the attack she proceeds immediately to her local police station to report the crime. When rape is assumed to fit such a stereotype, the prevention of rape is designed accordingly. Thus, rape prevention has historically involved such activities as shearing bushes, installing lights and alarm systems, or teaching women self defense. It has only been in recent history that work by Mary Koss and others has exploded this stereotype and shed light on the reality of rape in our culture. The monumental study conducted by Koss on 32 American college campuses revealed that not only had one in four women been the victims of rape or attempted rape, but 84% of these victims knew their attacker. Such results have been replicated consistently, and are now generally assumed to reflect the extent of sexual assault both on campus and in the more general population. In the context of this emerging information, rape is generally defined as sexual penetration with the use of force or threat of force (or those situations in which no force is required, as when the victim is mentally incapacitated through alcohol or drug use, mental disability, lack of consciousness, etc. Therefore, acquaintance rape is defined as rape that is committed by an individual known to the victim in some capacity: they could be friends, dates, lovers, former lovers or spouses, coworkers, neighbors, and so forth. As a result of this recent research, unprecedented levels of concern for the issue of acquaintance rape are now seen among medical and legal professionals, the media, and the general public. Yet an obvious lack of consensus remains about how to address the problem, because our new understanding of rape has challenged past assumptions and forced a reexamination of the very notion of rape prevention. Sexual assault prevention programming remains a confused, scattered, and sporadic enterprise with little scientific underpinning. Thus, a wide range of strategies is seen in the literature, including: increased campus lighting; self defense, counseling, and advocacy for women; educational presentations for high school students; community advertising campaigns; guided fantasy and role playing programs for college students; and rehabilitation programs for convicted rapists. Indeed, a comprehensive review of rape prevention by Fischhoff, Furby, and Morgan included 1,140 possible strategies. Unfortunately, despite this wealth of potential strategies, theoretical elaboration and empirical evaluation of rape prevention has been scant. Consequently, little is known about the effectiveness of any particular strategy or program. Recently, one of the most common strategies for rape prevention has been the educational program targeting ideological change, typically involving college students or other young adults. To that extent, an emerging consensus is being forged around the notion that educational efforts are needed to challenge cultural supports for rape. The purpose of this article is to review the current status of these educational programs, to discern what has been tried and learned. Toward that end, databases in psychology and related fields (primarily sociology and education) from the past two decades were searched for examples of educational rape prevention programs. Only those that appeared in print were considered; unpublished manuscripts and conference presentations were generally not included. All educational programs characterize  as rape prevention were initially considered, but only those presented with evaluative efforts were included in this review. Hence, all available evaluation studies were included, regardless of format, overall quality, theoretical conceptualization, targeted population, use of control comparison groups, and so forth. Although not intending to minimize the importance of solely descriptive accounts of rape prevention, inclusion in this review required program evaluation toward the goal of evaluating, prioritizing, and modifying currently existing programs. 