This paper describes the participation of women in computing in more than countries by focussing on participation at undergraduate level. A brief discussion covers how societal and cultural factors may affect women's participation.Statistics from many different sources are presented for comparison. Generally participation is low  most countriesfall in the  range with a few below  and a few above .
This paper presents a picture of the participation of womenin computing around the world. Authors have publishedmuch on the low participation of women in computing in theUSA the United Kingdom and Australia and there areresearchers active in other countries seeking to describe andunderstand their own situations. It is important to considerthe situation in different countries to avoid incorrect assumptionsand to find appropriate solutions.Recently the ACMs Committee on Women inComputing ACMW has taken steps to obtain a global pictureof the situation with the introduction of the ACMWAmbassador program. Each ACMW Ambassador will provideinformation about the status of women in computing intheir country via a website  links to these sites can be found.This paper focuses on participation in academic study,specifically university undergraduate level as this is a relativelyavailable statistic. Other measures will be used to fillout the picture where necessary. People have described computingas a discipline that contains aspects of science engineering,and mathematics. Because of this complexnature it is not possible to infer the situation of women incomputing from information about women in science orinformation about women in engineering. Hence publishedstatistical information that aggregates disciplines is not useful in determining the status of women in computing. Thisarticle presents mostly information about computing but italso presents general information that will broaden the picture.The next section briefly considers how cultural factorsaffect the participation of women in computing. The mainsection of the paper then presents data from different countriesThe data are presented compactly in tables and detailsof how the tables can be interpreted are given. Finally abrief discussion of the data is given.
. The Effect of Culture and SocietyThe reasons that women choose to study computing willvary from culture to culture and from country to country,and it is beyond the scope of this paper to consider this issuein detail. When seeking solutions for women's low participationin computing it is important to consider all culturaland societal factors that may affect this participation. Thisalso allows us to identify when a solution from one countrymay or may not be suitable to use in another country.For example Mukhopadhyay argues that the internalself selection model used to explain the participationof women in science in the United States cannot be appliedto India. A more appropriate model is one in which the familyis a decision maker where the decisions are guided bycollective family goals. One of these goals is ensuring thatdaughters marry well upholding family honor,and education is perceived as posing social dangers as wellas conferring benefits in achieving this goal. The modelexplains why there is lower participation in the applied sciencescompared to the pure sciences. The applied sciencessuch as engineering and technology are perceived to be highlymale dominated and hence present more dangerous socialcontexts than pure sciences such as physics chemistry andmathematics which can lead to more respectable jobs suchas a position at a women's college.In Science published a special issue comparingwomen in science across a number of cultures and countries.Factors associated to high numbers of women in science are
Girls only schooling India predominantly Catholic countriesCompulsory mathematics and science through secondaryschool PolandItalyFamily friendly societies IsraelMediterranean countriesPerceptions of science as a low status occupation whencompared to disciplines such as engineering Pomagal,TurkeyIndiaClass issues IndiaLatin American countries andRecently developed science capabilities PortugalMexico,Argentina.It is not clear whether these factors apply to computerscience as well. Researchers have investigated cross culturalgender issues in computing and some of these studies arenow briefly described. Janssen Reinen and Plomp J consideredprimary and secondary school students from Austria,Bulgaria Greece India Japan Latviathe Netherlands,Slovenia and the USA surveyed in  and . All countriesshowed gender differences in basic knowledge of informationtechnology and simple computer skills exceptBulgaria US Aand India. With respect to perceptions of relevanceof computing Austria the Netherlands and Latviashowed gender differences where boys were more positiveabout relevance. Generally female students showed lessenjoyment of computer use. Differences were also found interms of parental encouragement access to computers androle models. The lack of difference in ability and knowledgein the USA could possibly be attributed to high number offemale teachers parental encouragement and computer useoutside school. In Bulgaria it could be attributed to highnumber of female teachers. For the Indian students therewere high levels of parental encouragements for both maleand female students and the lowest level of computer use forboth male and female students from any country.In their study of university students in  countriesWeiland Rosen  found that in Thailand Italy and Kenya menwere significantly more anxious about computers whereasin Israel and Hungary women were significantly more anxious.There were significantly more male technophobes inKenya and significantly more female technophobes in theUSA Hungary and Australia. In the USASingapore,KenyaIsraelHungaryCzechoslovakiaBelgium,Australia and South Africa men had significantly morepositive cognitions with the reverse in Northern Ireland. Inone countryIndonesia female students had significantlymore experience than males and the opposite was found inYugoslavia Croatia Thailand Mexico Japan Italy India,Hungary Germany Czecho slovakiaand Australia. Theseresults indicate no consistent pattern but do show definitedifferences between countries.Gender and country based research has been done intocomputer self efficacy. Computer self efficacy describes toan individuals beliefs about their ability to be successfulwhen using computers. An aspect of computer self efficacyresearch concerns the We canI cant paradox. Thisdescribes how a member of a group for example a woman
believe that the group for example all women can succeedat the activity but yet believes that they personally cannotsucceed at that activity.Makrak is considered computer self efficacyamongst Japanese and Swedish secondary school pupils andfound no gender differences in either country. However,Japanese students believed that as a group they could succeedbut were less confident about their own individual abilityshowing the We canI cant paradox. This did not occuramongst the Swedish students and this difference was attributedto a greater focus in Japanese society on group identity.A similar study investigating self efficacy amongstRomanian and Scottish higher education students founddifferences between the male and female students withwomen students less confident about their abilities withadvanced skills and file and software skills. These differenceswere also evident when comparing male and femalestudents within each country. The fact that there were significantdifferences is self efficacy between male and femaleRomanian students is interesting considering that Romaniahas historically had a much higher percentage of femaletechnologists engineers and scientists.Collis and Williams found that there were fewergender based differences between Chinese students thanwith Canadian students when investigating attitudes to computers.The main gender based difference for Chinese studentswas in the perceptions of women's abilities wherefemale students were much more positive than male students.This difference also occurred amongst the Canadianstudents. Other differences between female and male studentsin the Canadian sample was that male students weresignificantly more positive about computers and female studentswere significantly more negative about the impact ofcomputers on society.Within a country students of different backgrounds canhave different experiences. Von Hellens and Nielsennote that amongst IT students at an Australian university,female Asian students feel they are ignored by nonAsianstudents and male Asian students whereas female nonAsianstudents feel they are the focus of sexual harassment andunwanted positive discrimination.Not all countries have low participation by women. Inmore than  of application/analyst programmersand system analyst/designers in Singapore were female andthe majority of graduates from computer courses werefemale. Uden argues that this occurs because ofgovernment promotion of the use of computers perceptionsof good career prospects in IT a preference amongst womenfor computing as opposed to engineering which also payswell exposure to computers at schools level in a gender neutralmanner and assistance with domestic responsibilities byolder family members or employees.As can be seen from this discussion these researchresults do not show a clear pattern that can help to explainwhy the differences between men and women with respect tocomputing occur in some countries and cultures and not inothers. Further research is required.

women's Participation in ComputingThe specific measure that will be considered in the tablesthat follow is women as a percentage of the total number ofundergraduate computing students or computing graduates.Hence the data collected concentrates on students takingcomputing at tertiary education level as a major subject inthe sense that their qualification will focus on computing. Insome cases the data refer to students in a particular year ofstudy who are taking computing courses at a major level.Where it was not possible to determine the type of course,the course has been briefly described. Most data are drawnfrom universities but as the tertiary education system variesfrom country to country information has been drawn fromother types of institutions such as technical colleges. Otherdata not specific to computing at tertiary level will be usedto give a more complete picture.Not all countries publish easily available national datarecording the percentages so data have been obtained fromtwo other sources: data from individual universities and datareported by individuals attending or presenting classes atuniversity level. There are four tables groupingtogether countries from similar geographical areas. For adiscussion of the approach taken in collecting data.

The first four tables have the format described below.Information that is unclear is marked with a question mark,and figures that are approximate are indicated with .CountrySome countries have more than one entry when the data arereported from different sources. The data are presented asdiscovered so there is the possibility of contradictory or disparatedata.DataIn this column a percentage is given calculated from thetotal number of women and the total number of people andif available the actual number of women is given in brackets.YearThis attribute is the year or years from which we derive thedata. Where year information is an academic year split overtwo calendar years the most recent year of the two is used inthese tables.TrendThis indicates any trends in the percentage data. If the percentagein the Trend column is less that that in the Data column,this means that since the year given in the Trend column,there has been an overall trend for the data to increase.If the percentage in the Trend column is more than that in theData column then since the year given in the Trend column,there has been a trend for the data to decrease. If noneappears in the trend column then since the year indicated inthe Trend column there has been no discernible trend. Insome cases the trends have been inferred from the dataavailable and in other cases it has been described as a trendby the source of the data.TypeThis column covers the level and the discipline to which thedata refers. As mentioned above the data collected refers tothe study of computing at major level at tertiary institutions.Where it was not possible to determine whether this was thecase the category Other has been used.The word Other is used when the data are not about major levelcomputing at university or a similar tertiary institution,and a footnote is given describing the data.SourceIf the data reflect national informationNational is used.Inst is used for published or official data from a specificuniversity or institution and Insts for similar data from agroup of universities or institutions. Ind is used for datagiven by an individual. For both institutional and individualdata.

The  UNESCO Statistical Yearbook gives figureson participation on women in the subject area Mathematicsand Computer Science in terms of both enrollment andgraduates. These data are of interest but must be consideredwith care as a high participation in mathematics may mask alow participation in computer science or vice versa. The editions of the Statistical Yearbook does not give thisbreakdown  it only gives figures of female participation forthe broad fields EducationHumanitiesSocial Sciences,Natural SciencesMedical Sciences and Others  and nofuture issues are planned of this yearbook. A summaryof the statistics from the  UNESCO Statistical Yearbookcan be found.

As can be seen from the tables there is a wide range in participationin computing by women. As the information coversdifferent courses and different levels it is difficult to doa direct comparison between countries. We can see from thedata that participation is between  and  in mostcountries and courses with a wide spread in this range.Hence there is a strong indication that there is an under representationof women in computing world wide at least interms of undergraduate participation. There are some countriesand courses where women's participation is below ,some with participation above and a few where womenare in the majority. Some countries and courses show anincreasing trend and some decreasing so it is not possible topredict future changes. To conclude women appear to beunder represented in the discipline of computing when weconsider the figures for undergraduate participation andthere is no clear indication that this will improve in the nearfuture. Ongoing research is required to determine causesand solutions.

Computers are becoming ubiquitous in our society and they offer superbopportunities for people in jobs and everyday life. But there is a noticeablesex difference in use of computers among children. This articleasks why computers are more attractive to boys than to girls and offersa cultural framework for explaining the apparent sex differences. Althoughthe data are fragmentary the world of computing seems to bemore consistent with male adolescent culture than with feminine valuesand goals. Furthermore both arcade and educational software is designedwith boys in mind. These observations lead us to speculate thatcomputing is neither inherently difficult nor uninteresting to girls butrather that computer games and other software might have to be designeddifferently for girls. Programs to help teachers instill computer efficacyin all children also need to be developed.Although radical change in society makes people uneasy change sometimesoffers superb opportunities for self advancement and organizational success.Computers are said to be bringing about such a transformation. By ,microcomputers will be a primary work tool in  of all jobs and over of all U.S. households will own them Cronin. In universitiescomputers are used in writing mathematics logic and model building art,
and architecture as well as engineering and science. Both primary andsecondary schools are buying computers at an ever increasing pace  a increase in the last three years. Parents of middle class children arepaying high fees to send their children to computer camps. Research datasupport the idea that computing can enhance other academic and intellectualskills and can be a superb motivating force in education Lepper, Lin Malone. The ability to compute is perceived as amarketable skill as the employment opportunities section of every newspaperdemonstrates. One computer manufacturer capitalizes on this perceptionin a television ad by showing a young job applicant sinking lower andlower in his chair as he is forced to admit that he does not know how to program.Of course the fact that computers are becoming increasingly availabledoes not ensure that everyone will participate equally in the benefits ofcomputer technology. For example some groups of children may be morelikely to interact with the computer than others. If so then the childrenwith the most exposure will reap the most benefit they will sharpen theirprocedural thinking and programming skills gain confidence with electronicdevices and have the opportunity to explore the many ways computers canbe used. These advantages in turn will increase the likelihood of thesechildren developing an interest in and succeeding in fields that involvecomputers. One current bias apparent in exposure to computers is based onsex. Encounters with computing in programming courses and at summercamps are much more common for boys than they are for girls. The magnitudeof the discrepancy has been reported to be as high as  or  to ,boys to girls Lepper. The average ratio at computer camps in was  to  Hess & Miura. In our own study of camps in theratio was  to  Kirby. If this bias in exposure produces an equivalentbias in competence and confidence the girls of today will have nochoice but to be second class citizens in the computer intensive world oftomorrow. Why are computers more attractive to boys? What can be done to increasetheir appeal to girls? Below we suggest one framework for explaining andreducing the sex difference based on a cultural analysis of computing. Weclaim that insofar as computing is an alien culture for girls they are lesslikely to get involved in this new technology. Our initial research supportsthis claim. We therefore urge that computer education include some trainingin surviving in the computing culture as well as teaching children computingskills and knowledge. True computer efficacy requires both the social knowledgeof the computer culture and the technical knowledge of computers asmachines. We urge researchers to study how that efficacy can be gained. Ifcomputing is inescapable in our future the opportunities for all children areinextricably tied to their socialization to the whole world of computing.Understanding how that socialization comes about and what makes it successful
will help us improve the technology and the ways children are introducedto it.Very little is known about the cultural aspects of computing. Investigationsof computer education generally focus on instruction or on the user interface.In research on instructional variables as in Malone’s work ondart tossing fantasies in learning fractions note: boys liked throwing dartsgirls liked another game without darts the emphasis is on features of thesoftware that enhance skill learning and promote positive attitudes aboutmathematics. The research on human factors in computing focuses on makingcomputer systems “friendly,” that is comprehensible and easy to useSchneider. These lines of research have contributed to computerliteracy both in the specific sense of teaching programming and in the broadersense of stimulating self directed learning of other cognitive skills. Thisresearch however does not address the context in which computing occurs,the reasons people value it the kinds of people who like it or the role oforganizations in computing. These questions cannot be answered by studyingparticular features of computer hardware or software or programming theyrequire attention to social and organizational characteristics and to people’sreactions to those characteristics. Systematic research has not been carriedout on the social aspects of computing hence the observations we presentbelow are based upon our general knowledge of cultural processes uponfragmentary evidence about children’s introductions to computing and uponsome of our own research and experiences in children’s schools in collegeclasses in electronic arcades in computer stores and in other places wherepeople encounter computers.Based on the information we have we believe that computing is morethan a set of skills. It is embedded in a social system consisting of sharedvalues and norms a special vocabulary and humors tatus and prestige ordering,and differentiation of members from nonmembers. In short it is aculture. In research at CarnegieMellon University we found that people’sinitial encounter with the culture can be truly dismaying Sproull Kiesler,ik Zubrow. The stylized nature of computing and its arbitrary conventionscan make people feel out of control and experts may be alienating.This first year student illustrates the kind of experience a novice may have:I was on the computer and something happened. I didn’t know what was goingon. I saw a guy sitting over there who looked like a real hacker. So I askedhim and he got up and he started doing all of this stuff with my accountwithout telling me what he was doing. He started messing around“You needthis. Let’s seeI’ll give you this file.” It’s like what are you doing? He wouldn’ttell me.The initial socialization to computing is important. As a result of it somestudents learn the skills and acquire the eagerness they need to delve furtherinto Computing. For example“I was glad that we were going to use. I don’t know why. I just thought ‘Ohneat we get to use the computer again.’ ” Others get angry and withdraw,as one woman expresses here:Looking backI’m really not afraid of computers but I’m going to try to stayaway from computers. I know I shouldn’t because it’s probably the thing ofthe future. But I’m really kind of leery to get into any type of computing again.Our data show that women students are significantly more likely than mento have this negative reaction. Why?At the moment the adult world of computing is heavily dominated bymales and transmitted to children by males. Primarily it is men who designthe video games write the software sell the machines and teach the courses.For children the male oriented cultural characteristics of computing can beseen in three domains:  the social settings in which children encountercomputers the language and stories of insiders and  the behavioralnorms. Currently most young people are introduced to computing throughvideo games in video arcades schools computer camps and their ownhomes. Both electronic games and home computers are primarily vehiclesof entertainment for children. For example one study of home computersfound that  of children over  and  of children under  use thecomputer for entertainment RogersDaley& Wu. Even when computersare not being used as video games the computers are still often partof a larger social game. They afford children and adolescents an excellentopportunity to socialize with their friends. The social nature of computingis apparent even in schools where the programs are educational “games.”Students all over the country are forming clubs and computer networks forplaying together sharing software and advancing their proficiency. Sincechildren and adolescents tend to form same sex peer groups these social“games” are also typically male. Even in preschool males dominate theschool computers. In one preschool the boys literally took over the computer,creating a computer club and refusing to let the girls either join thecomputer club or have access to the computer. As a result the girls spentvery little time on the computer. When the teachers intervened and set upa time schedule for sharing computer access the girls spent as much timeon the computer as the boys V. Blankenshippersonal communication,December . Apparently girls can enjoy the computer and do liketo use it but not if they have to fight with boys in order to get a turn. Asimilar process emerged in one elementary school we observed. Prior to theinstitution of timesharing rules the boys monopolized the computers andactively prevented the girls’ access to the machines. Once the girls weregiven “permission” by their teachers to use the computers they demonstratedenthusiasm for the computers.Although at first computing is a strange and possibly humiliating activity,
those children who acquire some proficiency can both advance rapidly intheir computing skills and become more at home in the computing community.They acquire discriminating attitudes toward games machines software,and programming styles. They learn to use “hacker” language see,e.g.Levy and to work their way through the complexities of computingsyntax devices and programs. But many girls must be actively encouragedto take the plunge.Where do most children take this initial plunge? Children and adolescentscan be found at all hours even school hours at the arcade or computercenter or home micro. The video arcade culture shares many characteristicsof a larger culture  the culture of young male adolescents. At the outset,anyone can peer into a video arcade and except for electronic bells andwhistles see the pool hall of yesterday. Video arcades are places whereyoung males hang out with their buddies. Occasionally they bring their girlfriends,but the girlfriends role is to admire the performance of her boyfriend,not to perform in her own right. Table  reports data from surveyswe made of attendance at video arcades and illustrates the overwhelmingpreponderance of boys playing electronic games. It also indicates that inthe U.S. at any rate girls are present in the surrounding environment justnot in the arcades themselves.In our recent observations of arcades we have also tallied the behaviorof groups of people and interviewed arcade players Kiesler & Schlisserman,
. We have summarized some of these data in Table . The data providemore support for our hypothesis that arcades are primarily nale preserves.In arcades as compared to nearby public places where we collected comparisondata the behavior is likely to include relatively aggressive behavior,such as shouting and swearing. Also we find that players of both sexesprefer “masculine” games of war and sports or games that require dexterityat high speed. We find that this is true not only in U.S. cities but also inat least one foreign city where arcades are found  Tel AvivIsrael.We have even found that some young children believe computer gamesand computers are for boys. In one nursery school Pratto  asked girlsand boys aged  to  to nanie the toys they played with. Both girls and boysreported that boys played with Atari it was never mentioned as a game forgirls. We returned to that school and asked  children whether they thoughtcomputers were for girl sand then we asked whether computers were forboys. Most children answered this question. Although the majority thoughtcomputers were for both genders the boys were not as sure of this as werethe girls  of the girls and  of the boys. Of the minority morechildren thought computers were for boys only  of the boys and of the girls than thought computers were for girls only  of the boys and of the girls.Computer stores we visited abound with software for home computers ontape and disks. A page from a typical software order form shows a preponderanceof games oriented around wars battles crimesand destruction aswell as traditionally male oriented sports and hobbies see Table . We alsolooked at the colorful covers of software for sale. On one rack covers incomic book style depicted such games as Olympic decathlon  male athletes on coverCannonball Blitz  men in battleSwashbuckler  male pirates,Thief  male detectiveAlien Typhoon  male space explorer and MoneyMunchers  man in a suit. In all men and  women were illustratedin the covers. The women were on the covers of Monopoly  men and women playing the gamePalace in Thunder land  very fat queen andWizard and the Princess  wizard standing princess in supplicating positionon floor.One might argue that playing computer games has no relationship toserious computing. This is not true. Playfulness foolishness coping withchallenge and exploration are all part of learning to compute of studyingcomputers and of working with them. This is the case not just in colleges,but also in the high technology firms populated by computer scientists Kidder,. In our most recent study of first year students Dubrovsky,Kiesler Sproull & Zubrowin press we found that students who playcomputer games are more likely to have had high school courses in computing.Further playing games and having prior computing experience arenegatively correlated with poor outcomes in the freshman computing course.And as is shown in Table young women are not only less likely to playcomputer games and to have had prior computing experience but are alsomore likely to experience negative outcomes in their first college computingcourse. We cannot infer causality in these data but we think they do counteractthe claim that computer games have no relation to success in computing.Of course the terminal rooms of high schools computer camps and collegesare somewhat up the status ladder from the video arcade. Rather thanentertainment halls these settings often remind one of the engineeringlaboratory with nothing on the walls but schematics or instructions for usingthe machines. The terminals stand in neat rows. The feeling of these placesis reflected in the comments of a college student in one of our studies whowas talking about the terminal room:

Computer stores of course are not as awesome but they seem to be designedfor consumers comfortable with electronics and currently those consumersare more likely to be male. They are in fact electronics stores withcircuits in boxes on the shelves and cables snaking across the floor. Theoperators and technicians and sales people in these places are predominantlymale usually young and often fervent adherents to computing as away of life.Another aspect of computing which bespeaks young male culture is foundin the themes of educational software designed for children. Mark Lepper has pointed out for example:One sees. . . a variety of presumably educational games that involve the samethemes of war and violence that are so prevalent in video arcade games andanother large class of programs that involve largely male sex type sports e.g.,baseball basketball and football. In the game of “Spelling Baseball,” forinstance the child’s reward for superior performance is the opportunity to seeone’s own baseball team outscore the computer’s team. When one watcheschildren exposed to these games it is hard to avoid the conclusion that thesechoices are not optimal for interesting girls in the world of computers. 
A of the preceding observations suggest that the culture of computingmay be a reasonable explanation for the apparent difference in girls’ andboys’ attraction to computing. It is a world of electronic pool halls and sportsfields of circuits and machines of street corner society transmuted to aterminal room. This is hardly the kind of world girls find enticing. It is aworld that many girls will not enter or if they doit is a world in whichmany girls will get “turned off.” The proportion of girls in computer classesgoes down drastically with age and with the difficulty of computer coursesHess & Miura. The culture of computing must contribute to thisdiminution.What can be done to increase the interest and efficacy of girls in thecomputing culture? Some people may claim that little can be done perhapsthe cultural pressures are an outcome of sex differences in aptitude or inearly socialization. Studies have shown large differences between boys andgirls in the acquisition of sex linked skills Wesley & Wesley. Youngboys for example are more likely than are girls to be able to repair a radioor bicycle girls are more likely to be able to cook a meal or repair a pieceof clothing. It has also been shown that girls have poorer spatial skills thanboys e.g.Hyde Sauls & Larson and many computer gamesrely heavily on spatial skills.We have reason to believe however that there is nothing intrinsic tocomputing that would discourage girls. The social implications in using acomputer appear to be the main stumbling block. In factthe very firstcomputer programmers were women who had been hired by the Navy duringWorld War I to calculate shell trajectories on mechanical calculators. WhenENIAC the first operational computer was built these women were assignedto program it and became known as the “ENIAC girls,” Kraft,p. . Ironically as Kraft notes it was because programming was initiallyviewed as of “low importance” that it was assigned to women. Carl Bergercited in Lin has demonstrated that while girls typically performmore poorly than boys on arcade games when they are first learning thegames girls do just as well as boys after only a very short practice period.Despite the widespread idea that computers are machines and hence thatgirls would not be good at operating them computers are not machines inthe traditional sense. The essence of computer literacy is really proceduralthinking Papert Sheil. There is no evidence that girls aredeficient in this respect or that their early training and interests are inconsistentwith it. Therefore if some of the initial alienating cultural pressurescan be overcome girls might be as likely as boys to take the behavioral andcognitive steps necessary to gain control and confidence in computing.Much has been learned about sex differences in achievement generally,including the social expectations that maintain them. But the observationsdiscussed above in relation to sex differences in the computer domain havebeen based on rather fragmentary data. More carefully designed studies specifically about computing are indicated. Studies have shown that femalesseek out achievement activities that are consistent with feminine values andgoals. Females are prone to be intimidated by a male dominatedachievement activity in a highly competitive and aggressive context.Since these studies did not relate directly to computing however,these results provide only general guidance for discovering the particularcultural pressures and characteristics of computing.In Table we illustrate what culture can mean to behavior. The tablepresents data from observations of men and women at gambling establishmentsin RenoNevada. Anyone who goes to Reno or Las VegasAtlanticCity Nassauor Monte Carlo! will notice strong sex differences in the choiceof games. Men are much more likely to gravitate to craps and poker theconfrontational aggressive“put yourself on the line” games. Women preferless competitive games which leave more to chance and unfortunately,result in poorer longterm payoffs. To what degree are the differences inmotivation cultural? A clue may be found in the high frequencies of womenplaying video poker a new feature of these establishments and still relativelyrare. The appeal of this game for women suggests that poker is not inherentlydistasteful to women but rather that ordinary poker as played face to face,is somehow unattractive. We guess that poker and craps are both discouragedand discouraging for most women. They are masculine activities and playingthem would almost always entail playing against a majority of men most ofwhom are far more experienced. In addition playing these games requirestaking the psychological risks apart from the monetary risks of “conning”others and being assertive. In its electronic versions poker may be intellectuallychallenging in terms of remembering probabilities and preferablestrategies but the aforementioned “social” aspects are removed. Theseobservations lead one to speculate whether computer games for girls needto be designed differently.Programs for teachers to instill computer efficacy in all children also needto be developed. An important element of such programs is the ability toinstill competence and confidence. We suggest two areas for exploration:The first is experimenting with computer languages that utilize children’sown fields of interest rather than using preprogrammed games or activities.This is the philosophy behind LOGOa powerful language that can be usedby children as young as  Paper. Paper does not report whetheror not children’s interest in LOGO is sex linked but it is reasonable toassume that if each child can use a computer to play or draw or write ormake music in ways that she or he finds most interesting then sex differencesin computer efficacy should not appear. The second area is using the computer’spotential for communication in contrast with computation to encouragechildren to establish and join computer networks. The content ofnetwork messages need have nothing to do with computers. The messages may focus on pets recipes rock and roll stars paleontology  whateverkids want to talk about. Exploration of these areas could promote computerefficacy by helping children understand that they can use the computer inways that are meaningful to them. This should be an important goal for allchildren.We have suggested that computing an innovation with profound socialimplications for all people should be viewed from a cultural rather than anarrowly technical perspective and we have suggested that girls may findtheir encounters with this culture to be particularly alien and unpleasant.If this is the case then they will be relegated to the status of second classcitizen in the world of computing. We must begin today to ensure that girlscan successfully negotiate the culture of computing.


This paper recommends methods for increasing female participationin undergraduate computer science. The recommendationsare based on recent and ongoing research intothe gender gap in computer science and related disciplinesThey are intended to work in tandem with the ComputingResearch Associations recommendations for graduate programssee  in this issue to promote a general increasein women's participation in computing professions.Most of the suggestions offered here could improve theeducational environment for both male and female students.However general improvements are likely to be of particularbenefit to women because women in our society do not generallyreceive the same level of support that men receive forentering and persisting in this field. Parents friends andclassmates seldom encourage women to choose and continuein a computing discipline. Those few women who declarea computing major tend to experience continued lack of supportthroughout their education. They have few female peersto call on for help. Furthermore students in their own andother majors may consider them odd. Even faculty can discouragewomen with unthinking remarks or with expectationsbased on the assumption that mens behavior and experienceare the basis for success in computing majors. Thislack of support can block or weaken women's commitmentto computing. Moreover when conditions in a departmentare generally unfavorable those with a weakened commitmentto the discipline often leave at higher rates than thosewho have sufficient support to overcome the conditions.I. Recruiting WomenActively recruiting women into the major is the single mosteffective means of increasing female participation in computingprograms. It has the twofold benefit of bringing morewomen into the discipline and into the recruiting department.In addition it also helps retain women because having morewomen in a program facilitates the crucial peer support thatall computing students need. This point was illustratedby students who voiced the strongest theme heard in focusgroups conducted across the United States: classmates can bethe most effective means of helping undergraduates copewith the difficulties of being a computing major. Supportfrom other female students helps to keep women in the programso that those recruited are also retained through graduation.Understanding what attracts women to computingmajors can help with planning a recruitment strategy.Qualitative research involving  large departments acrossthe U.S. showed that undergraduate women who decide tomajor in computer science often do so for the following reasons:They believe that computing fits their personal strengths orabilities.They have friends and family who support and encouragetheir decision to major in this field.Computing offers an opportunity to be creative.They anticipate careers that pay well and offer a variety ofways to apply their skills.A recruitment program that highlights these attractive featuresof computing can help draw more women into the discipline.The same research also found that three important factorsin undergraduate women's choice of a particular computingprogram are: the departments reputation for quality,cost and location. These factors suggest that an effectiverecruitment strategy would focus on the programs publicimage value and financing options and it might include acomponent that targets women who live in the institutionsgeographic region.Recommendations for Recruiting WomenThe specific recommendations that follow identify productiveapproaches and likely sources of women who could bequalified and interested in studying computer science.Recommendations  through  focus on how and wheredepartments or institutional representatives can reach out tothese women. Recommendations  through  focus on internalpolicies and practices that can affect the numbers ofwomen who enter computer science programs.OutreachGiven our society image of computing as a male activity,few women are likely to consider a computer science majorunless they are explicitly encouraged to do so. Colleges universities and their computing programs can provide thisencouragement in a variety of settings. They can reachprospective students in high schools community colleges,civic groups and within their own institutions. Contact withhigh school and community college teachers counselors andstudents as well as with civic groups and the local populationcan be a powerful recruiting mechanism. Through thesecontacts baccalaureate level programs can disseminateinformation that combats stereotyped images of computerscientists: they can provide female role models who demonstratethat women do enjoy computing and succeed at it andthey can exhibit creative computing products that help peopleor are particularly relevant to the lives of women. Whencomputing departments or their representatives take the initiativein these ways they can increase the numbers ofwomen who enter both the discipline and their particular programs.RecommendationWork with high school teachers.During high school students make choices that affect theircareer options. These decisions are reversible but they doinfluence students subsequent choice of college major .By working with high school teachers to both improve theirinstructional techniques in computer science and sensitizethem to relevant gender issues colleges and universities canincrease the flow of prepared and interested female studentsto the postsecondary level. The effectiveness of thisapproach can be seen at Carnegie Mellon University CMU. At CMU summer workshops instruct high schoolAdvanced Placement teachers in the C++ language andobject oriented programming while passing along techniquesfor recruiting and retaining girls. One result of thisprogram is that the percentage of male and female studentsin each class entering the School of Computer Sciencefrom participating high schools has more than doubledsince the beginning of the project .Recommendation .Communicate with high school guidance counselors.Guidance counselors are a source of information for studentsmaking college choices. Educating these professionals aboutthe rewarding opportunities available to women in computerscience helps to counteract negative stereotypes and increasesthe likelihood that they will encourage their female studentsto consider a computing major. The CMU programencourages high school teachers to pass along the informationthey learn about gender issues in computing to theircounselor colleagues. As a result girls participate in computingclasses at higher levels prompting one high schoolteacher to credit her schools guidance counselor for the factthat almost half the enrollment in her advanced placementclass was female .RecommendationUse role models to actively recruit high school students.Role models can be quite effective at attracting more womeninto computer science. Departments can involve their currentundergraduate women in recruitment visits to highschools. While the recurrent undergraduates can talk abouttheir experiences as computing majors and their career plans.These student role models help high school students envisionthemselves working toward a similar future in the same.way that female faculty role models help college studentsenvision a future in computing. An example of such a programcan be seen at Louisiana State University where recentalumnae of St. Josephs High School serve as effective rolemodels at their former high school .RecommendationDevelop relationships with community colleges.Forty six percent of the associate degrees inComputer and Information Sciences at yearTitle IV participating,degree granting institutions in the U.S. went towomen in. Forty six percent is much higherthan the  of computer science degrees that went towomen at the baccalaureate level. Certainly many peoplewho attend community colleges have different goals fromthose who attend year colleges. Only a small percentageof associate degree recipients go on to study at a year institution,and women are even less likely than men to do so. However the gender composition of computing associatedegrees suggests that community colleges can be anexcellent source of women with an interest in studying computing.When baccalaureate computing programs work withcommunity college faculty and counselors in a fashion similarto that recommended for high school outreach they cantap into an underutilized source of women who are potentialcomputing majors.Recommendation .Make contact with the local community.Women particularly those with children may be less geographicallymobile than men . For this reason the localcommunity may include many women interested in earninga computing degree if that community also offers a strongjob market for computing professionals. For example preliminaryresults from a project designed to bring IT training,education and employment to rural communities found thatthe majority of the interested individuals were women .This project works with community leaders and the localpopulation to distribute information about the project and theopportunities it provides for information technology training.Contacts of this nature between providers of computing educationand local groups can tap into a source of potentialfemale computing majors disseminate information thatcounters negative stereotypes of the profession and marketavailable training and education programs.RecommendationRecruit first and second year students from within your institution.Recruiting from among first and second year students with
women who major in computer science initially intend a differentmajor. In fact numerous female participants in ournational study began as intended premed majors .Many departments offer events for prospective majorsthat can include special components designed to targetwomen. For example a meeting where alumnae speak abouttheir careers and female students speak about the computerscience program and their experiences in it can help prospectivemajors decide whether computing is right for them.Women can be encouraged to attend these meetings witheffective advertising offers of food or other incentives and,perhaps most importantly personal invitations to promisingstudents in introductory and service courses... Internal Policies and PracticesRecommendationConsider the impact that selection criteria for programadmission can have on women's enrollment.In response to overwhelming demand for their programs,some departments have instituted application processes foradmission into the major. These processes can have theunintended effect of filtering out interested women w. homight have done well in computer science particularly if theprocess is not based on hard evidence of the characteristicsnecessary for student success. An example of how unintendedfiltering might occur is seen with experience criteria.Women often develop an interest in computing at a later agethan men resulting in their having less computing experiencethan men at college age . Thus if selection criteria favorstudents who already have extensive computing experience,they are likely to disadvantage women. This disadvantagewould be unwarranted if prior experience is not necessary forsuccess as it has proven not to be in Carnegie MellonUniversity program . Thus rather than focus on experiencealone departments should look for strong female candidatesamong those who took challenging courses andearned high grades even if many of these courses were notin computer science.RecommendationOffer multiple points of entry.An introductory curriculum that helps overcome differencesin student backgrounds and experience can be an effectiveway to welcome women into a program. Offer multiplecourse sections when possible or incorporate pedagogicalstrategies that take into account the extent of beginning studentsprior experience. These strategies can prevent introductorycourses from being either too difficult or too easy,and they provide a gradual start for students who are uncertainabout their interest and ability. As a result they helpretain students through the early stages of a program thestages at which most attrition occurs .RecommendationReview public information for the image it projects.


Do printed information and other media that represent thedepartment and its programs portray women as only passiveobservers? Do they portray women at all? Public informationcan reinforce the image of computer scientists as obsessivenerds or it can project an image of a program that welcomesstudents from all demographic groups who wish toengage in interesting challenging and creative technicalwork. Overcoming negative stereotypes is an important steptoward drawing more women into computing majors.Projecting an inclusive image of the discipline contributes toaccomplishing this task.. Retaining WomenWithout adequate peer support women are likely to leavecomputing programs at higher rates than men leave .When a departments gender composition is unbalanced,women have less access to support from female classmates.This lack of support leaves women particularly vulnerable tounfavorable departmental conditions. However lack of peersupport can be overcome when the faculty and the largerenvironment create favorable conditions ..  Recommendations for Retaining WomenThe following recommendations intend to compensate forthe lack of support experienced by most women in a computingmajor. Recommendations  through  focus onways faculty can help to compensate for the support that islacking. Recommendations  through  focus on waysinstitutional and community resources can help to compensatefor the support that is lacking... Support from FacultyRecommendationMaintain a stable faculty.High turnover among the faculty is associated with a disproportionateloss of women computer science majors . Thisoutcome could result because departments with high facultyturnover might not be able to reliably offer the courses thatstudents need to progress toward graduation. High turnovermight also indicate that faculty have a weak commitment toteaching or are dissatisfied with conditions in the department.Any or all of these circumstances could create a poorenvironment for students and contribute to the loss of womenwho lack sufficient support for overcoming unfavorable conditions.RecommendationProvide female role models.Role models can be a powerful aid in retaining undergraduatewomen. Faculty and upper level student role models provideevidence that women can succeed in computing disciplines.This evidence inspires other women to enter and persistin computing programs. Research differs in its conclusionsabout the numbers and nature of role models necessaryfor this positive impact . However there is consensusthat under the right conditions role models are an effective

means of promoting retention. When implementing this recommendation,departments should consider that it might bedifficult to retain a lone woman on the faculty in the sameway that it is difficult to retain students with little peer support.RecommendationEmploy faculty who enjoy teaching undergraduates.Pedagogical and curricular issues are the focus of much discussionabout how to increase women's participation in computerscience. Departments have low overall attrition rateswhen the average faculty member reports deriving a highdegree of personal satisfaction from teaching undergraduates. This intrinsic motivation to teach is also associated withcomparably low attrition rates for women . Likewise,female attrition is relatively low in departments where facultymembers believe they play an important role in the successof their students . These results underscore theimportant role teaching can play in retention of women incomputing majors. Quality teaching can help overcome thedisproportionately negative effect of otherwise unfavorableenvironments. We can retain students especially those in thevulnerable early stages of their undergraduate program,when they primarily encounter their departments mostaccessible motivated teachers.RecommendationPromote interaction among classmates and develop learningcommunities and other forms of peer support.Some faculty facilitate the formation of friendship networksamong students in their classes . Their actions could fosterthe peer support that all students find essential to successin a computing major but that women typically have moretrouble finding. Given the strong effect of peer support itseems well worth the effort to have students introduce themselvesto each other and to the class if size permits to createa list of names and contact information for class members,and to promote student involvement in professionalorganizations. These actions encourage the formation ofsupport networks that proved effective for the retention ofunderrepresented groups in other science mathematics,engineering and technology disciplines.RecommendationMentor undergraduates.Faculty mentoring can help retain women . The story ofone students experience with supportive faculty membersillustrates how personal positive interactions with faculty canreduce uncertainty and improve self confidence.Professor X was ... very encouraging. He was a really niceguy and a good teacher .... You could go to his office. Youwanted a letter of recommendation he’d help you out. Youwanted another book to read about something else hed helpyou out. And that kind of thing has been encouraging. I alsohad Professor Y last semester for course XX and in thebeginning I was having such a hard time ... with the classitself. And for me she was encouraging because she was,Just keep at it. You can do it. We need more women in thefield. Laughter from other members of the focus group.And yeah. You re laughing but its true. It made me feelbetter. At least shes ... aware that Im trying and Im notjust stupid and she thought I could do it .With mentoring from faculty members this undergraduatewoman eventually progressed to a point where she wasengaged in research. When her own confidence failed her,she relied on her mentors confidence in her. With their support,she was persisting.RecommendationCommunicate positive opinions of female students strengths.Expressing favorable opinions of female students abilitiesand accomplishments might help overcome women's oftennoted  lack of self confidence in their computing skills. Some evidence suggests that departments retain femalestudents at comparable rates to men when faculty membersvalue their female students strengths . For example indepartments that retain women at comparable rates to men,faculty often praise the women in their program for beingdiligent willing to learn and organized. However we couldsee these same characteristics in a different light anddescribed as perfectionism lack of confidence and reluctanceto make heroic efforts i.e. work all night in the lab.Preliminary findings suggest that female retention is promotedin environments where the more favorable interpretationsare prevalent and where these favorable characterizationsare expressed to students .RecommendationInvolve women in research.Student engagement in faculty research has a strong positiveeffect on student retention in undergraduate science mathematics,engineering and technology majors . Althoughmost undergraduates have no research experience those whodo are quite enthusiastic about it . Engaging in researchhas positive effects on undergraduate persistence in the sameway it promotes graduate student persistence... Support from Institutional and CommunitySourcesRecommendationBuild institutional support so the program will have adequateresources.Departments with strong institutional support are better ableto retain women at rates comparable to men . This findingis likely due to negative impacts from insufficient faculty,space and equipment. It is a clear example of how conditionsthat deter students of both sexes can have a disproportionatelynegative effect on women's retention. Both menand women are frustrated and discouraged by lack ofresources . Women in these departments might leave athigher rates because of the extra assertiveness it takes tocompete for scarce resources and/or because difficultyobtaining resources lessens an already weakened attachmentto the discipline.RecommendationUse the local job market to provide students with work experience.Employers can foster students persistence in computingprograms by their employment experiences. Employmentoffers students the chance to produce something of valueand to see it used. Employment also offers expandedaccess to role models mentors and professional peers .Likewise internships with competent supervisors can havea positive influence on student persistence. For thesereasons departments should work with local employers tofacilitate an appropriate degree of student work experiencei.e.not so much that it interferes with students academicresponsibilities.RecommendationProvide students with opportunities to volunteer their computingskills in service to the community.In the same way that employment offers students a chance toapply what they have learned and produce something useful,community service can be a positive experience. In addition,service to the community is an opportunity to help other sanaspect of computing that many women appreciate . In thisway volunteer experiences can demonstrate the value ofcomputing skills and nourish women's commitment to thediscipline.. ConclusionThe most important message offered here is that femaleunderrepresentation in computer science is not anintractable gender difference. Departments can have a significantimpact on underrepresentation through recruitmentand retention of women at the undergraduate level.Outstanding results have been achieved by implementingrecommendations similar to those described in this paper.See  in this issue. With thought and commitment wecan recreate these accomplishments in many computingdepartments until women's participation in the disciplinereaches an equitable level.

National Council for Research on Women finds that much of the progressthat women have made in science engineering and technology has stalledor eroded. As we enter the new millennium there will be an increasingneed for a scientifically and technologically literate workforce. A studentorganizationWomen in Technology was formed at Purdue University–WestLafayette in  in response to data indicating that there had been noincrease in the number of women enrolled in the University’s School ofTechnology over the past five years. Such data were consistent with thoseproduced by national studies indicating that the trend of increasing numbersof women enrolling in engineering scienceand technology programs inAmerican colleges and universities established in the preceding two decades,had ceased. The aim of Women in Technology was to attract more womento the School and reduce the attrition rate of women already in the programby serving as a well-recognized formal context in which they couldreceive mentoring and in which they could find stable social support tohelp them achieve their academic and career objectives. This article discussesan overview of the organization the results of a survey of members’undergraduate classroom experiences student-generated strategies foraddressing the concerns revealed in the survey and the implementationof those strategies.

A variety of programs have succeeded in attracting more women into the fields ofscience engineering and technology over the past two decades. Many of thesewomen are now in highly visible positions. However although women constitute of the labor forceless than a quarter of the scientists and engineers in thiscountry are women Mervis. A July  report released by The NationalCouncil for Research on Women finds that much of the progress that women havemade in these areas has stalled or eroded. The report underscores the increasingneed for a scientifically and technologically literate workforce as we enter the newmillennium. One year earlier the Morella Commission charged with developingstrategies to attract more women and minorities into science engineering andtechnology reported to the Committee on Science of the House of Representativesthat significant barriers to attaining that goal are present from elementary schoolthrough college and beyond Committee on Science. Women and girlswill comprise half of the available science engineeringand technology talentpool. Therefore it becomes imperative not only to attract but also to retain womenand girls in these disciplines.As early as elementary and middle school male/female attitudes toward scienceand technology begin to differ. This continues on into high school during thecritical period when girls begin to develop an understanding of their sociallydefined gender roles AAUW Belenkey et al. Seymour Welty& Puck. They have some reservations about the seemingly male “computerculture” as they watch boys utilizing computers for violent computer gamesand what they see as technology for its own sake AAUW. There is littlesoftware that appeals to them. Therefore the tendency of boys to monopolizethe computers is not being vigorously challenged Borg. As a result girlsdo not take advantage of after-school computer clubs or enroll in higher-levelcomputer classes Sanders.Contributing to girls’ unequal participation in science mathematics and computereducation are tracking negative judgments about their ability and accessto qualified teachers and resources Madigan Oakes Weiss.By the time they are at the point where they must choose careers girls haveless experience with computers and perceive that they are behind decreasingtheir likelihood of entering the fields of science engineering and/or technologyBorg.There is a dearth of young women enrolled nationwide in secondary schoolcomputer science advanced placement classes. Their absence does not appear tostem from disinterest in computers but rather from applications that seem moreattuned to the interests of boys AAUW Molad. Henceas youngwomen enter colleges and universities in the areas of science engineering,and technology they are disadvantaged by their lack of computer experienceSanders. They also appear to have career goals that are not as well defined
as those of their male counter parts and often lack confidence in their abilitiesAstin & Sax Vetter. They encounter college and university classesthat are unfriendly to them impeding their learning. The absence of womenfaculty and mentors both within the classroom and outside of it few womenstudents in their classes and the lack of supportive networks can create a “chillyclimate” for women in non-traditional fields. It is during this critical periodthat many of them transfer into other fields HansonNational Councilfor Research on Women Seymour Seymour & Hewett.This article presents a case study of Women in Technology a student organizationat Purdue University founded by the School of Technology administrationto address a flat line in the growth of the number of women students over thepast five years. Unlike many other student organizationsWomen in Technologystudents are responsible for identifying the problems they face generatingalternative strategies for dealing with those problems and with their facultyadvisors implementing those strategies they determine are the most promising.In this article we examine the results of a climate survey given to members ofthe student organization. We then consider student members’ reactions tothese findings. Next we look at the solutions proposed by the students to theproblems identified in those data. Finally we explore how a new networkingmentoring/learning communities model for Women in Technology creates anenvironment for student-driven rather than faculty- or administration-driven solutionsto their perceived problems as women in non-traditional environments.

Purdue University–West Lafayette is a MidwesternBig TenResearch IUniversity with students of whom  are women and facultymembers of whom  are women. Purdue’s School of Technology consists ofeight departments: Aviation TechnologyBuilding Construction Management,Computer Graphics Technology Computer Technology Electrical and ComputerEngineering TechnologyIndustrial TechnologyMechanical Engineering Technology,and Organizational Leadership and Supervision. Table  shows thatduring the past five years the number of female faculty has remained virtuallyunchanged at only . of the total faculty.In spite of the growth of career opportunities for women in all areas oftechnology and heavy efforts to recruit women into the areas of science,engineering and technologyPurdue University’s School of Technology experiencedno growth in the proportion of women students enrolled during themost recent five year period. As shown in Table women continue to representonly . of the student body.To address this issue and to assist in the recruitment and retention of womenstudents the School created Women in Technology as a student organizationin December . Its stated purpose was “promoting the leadership of women
in technology through networking encouragement mentoring and outreach”Women in Technology Constitution. Seventy-five women from the Schoolof Technology joined the new organization. Four months later the woman whowas then faculty advisor applied for funds to support Women in TechnologyAssertiveness Training. The grant application stated that “based upon myresearch women and men in team projects need to be more assertive. Women tendto think their behavior is already assertive while their peers would disagree andlabel women’s behavior and communication skills as unassertive. Men studentsgenerally reported that they knew they were being unassertive” AlliedSignalGrant Application. They received the funds to conduct assertiveness workshops.As described in the grant application the program would consist ofworkshops on conflict management sexual harassment and interpersonal communication.It was designed to last the entire school year but fell far short ofthat goal as noted below.Upon assuming our roles as faculty advisors to Women in Technology wefound an organization that appeared to be in disarray. The membership which had
initially stood at  women had dropped significantly. Few women wereattending meetings and we were told that the assertiveness training programmingscheduled for the spring semester had been canceled. The first several meetingswe attended seemed largely focused on process and there was little input fromthe members in attendance. Many of those members seemed not to know oneanother. There appeared to be no agreement on what the organization’s goalsshould be or on how to achieve the goals that had been set.We believed that if we did not intervene we would find ourselves presidingover Women in Technology’s demise. As we saw it the students were takinglittle responsibility for the organization looking instead to faculty for direction.We agreed that if in factWomen in Technology were to survive it would haveto move from a faculty-driven to a student-driven organization. For that type ofchange to occur and with it an increased responsibility for the group by itsmembers we would need the buy-in of the officers and the members Quinn, Schein.One of the authors had been instrumental in creating networking mentoringgroups for women faculty and staff on the Purdue campus as well as a researchsupport group for doctoral students. Bothgroups contained elements of networking mentoring and learning communitiessee below. Building upon lessons learned from those groups webelieved that the networking mentoring/learning communities model heldpromise for rebuilding Women in Technology.A NETWORKING MENTORING/LEARNINGCOMMUNITIES MODELAmong the recommendations suggested by the National Council for Researchon Women  report was to support women undergraduates by investingin mentoring programs with role models who can put a human face on science,engineering and technology. Two models for achieving these goals are networkingmentoring and learning communities. Organizing students into learningcommunities is a strategy that can connect students on what can seem dauntinglylarge and lonely university campuses Shapiro & Levine. Learning communitiescan be organized around common interests and curricula. “These canbe used to build a sense of group identity cohesiveness and uniqueness . . . andto counteract the isolation that many students feel.There is a long rich tradition within academe of using networking mentoringas a strategy for bringing women together for their mutual benefit and supportHaring Swoboda & Millar. Defined as “an ever-changing series ofdyadic contacts in which each person plays the role of mentor or mentee todiffering degrees in each dyad” networking mentoring is an empowering strategythat has been successful in assisting women with academic progress both asfaculty members and students. Its power comes
from the fact that each woman involved in a networking mentoring group spendssome time as a mentor and some time being mentored depending upon thesituation. Each member is encouraged to take leadership in areas where she hasparticular knowledge and/or interest and to seek mentoring in those areas whereshe is less knowledgeable thus lessening the hierarchy that can develop inorganizations of this sort. However if we were to be agents for change wefirst needed to gain an understanding of the women students who chose to jointhe organization.METHODThe following sections describe the initial efforts of a study that we conductedto help the School of Technology understand the classroom experiences of themembers currently involved with Women in Technology and to help empowerthe organization to become self-directed.Despite the fact that the school was aware that women students comprise only of the total enrollment no formal study had been conducted to investigatestudent views or perceptions. In order to solicit student responses regardingthese factors a survey was administered to the current members of Women inTechnology. Of the  students involved in the group responded to thesurvey for a  response rate.The survey questions were modified from the WEPAN Pilot Climate Survey,designed to assess engineering students’ perceptions of the educational climateat their universities Brainard Metz & Gilmore. Research suggests thatfemale students are most concerned about isolation the perceived irrelevanceof theoretical preparatory courses negative experiences in laboratory courses,classroom climate and lack of role models Kramer. Other studies havesuggested that the different learning styles of women may influence their desireto enter engineering or technology fields. Additional data indicate that the problemis the image that engineering and technology are not disciplines whoseprimary goal is to help society a frequently cited desire of female studentsSantovec.Both open and closed form questions were utilized for the survey to allowfor both structured and greater depth of responses. The structured questionswere rated on a -point Likert scale with responses ranging from strongly agreeto strongly disagree. In addition the open form question allowed for morespecific and individualized responses and minimized the imposition of predeterminedresponses when gathering data GallBorg& Gall.Patton  recommends utilizing multiple methodologies when studyinga phenomenon in order to strengthen the design. That process is termed“triangulation.” To triangulate the data we examined the Women in Technologydocuments: its Constitution program announcements grant applications andevents brochures. However we recognize that studying the members of Women
in Technology limits the inferences we can draw from our data. Members of anorganization self-select which means they may be more or less committed totheir careers. They may also have very different experiences from the rest oftheir cohort. Additionally we have neither a control group nor comparable datafrom male technology students from which to draw comparisons. However,we believe the findings are consistent with the literature cited above and thatthe power of the women’s voices will permit some limited inferences to bedrawn. One final point: because Women in Technology members come fromsuch diverse departments as Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology,Organizational Leadership and SupervisionAviation Technology and ComputerTechnology we do not believe that findings are specific to any particulardiscipline but can be applied to other non-traditional programs in which womenare enrolled.
Structured QuestionsThe structured questions focused on classroom climate perception of technologicalabilities and career choice. The results are seen in Table .The data indicate that  of the women students responding to the surveyare in predominantly male classroom environments and nearly one-third areuncertain of or lack confidence in their technology skills. Almost one-third ofthe women believe that the professors in their technology classes do not treatwomen and men equally and  of them do not feel comfortable going to themfor assistance outside the classroom. Approximately  of the respondentsindicate that they do not feel like equal participants when working on groupprojects with male teammates. More than  of the women feel they havethe support from their family and friends for their intended careers but are uncertain of or do not believe that technology careers are appropriate choicesfor women.By far the most compelling results of the survey are the voices that expressthe individual experiences of being a female student in the School of Technology.Those responses are discussed below.Open QuestionsThe survey contained three open questions:Are you pleased with your choice of a career in technology? Why orwhy not?What if any gender-specific problems have you encountered as a womanin technology?How can the School of Technology best support its women students?

The responses to the questions indicate that the students have many similarconcerns. It is clear from the comments received that many female studentsfeel outnumbered and even intimidated in class:I’m the only female in a class of . You really feet alone.I’m always one of the few females in class. That gives me a lot of pressure.I had an experience in one of my classes where I felt that men thoughtthe women in the class did not exactly belong there or were stupid.My roommate freaked out one semester when the teacher made remarksabout what she was doing in there with the guys. Something like other girlswould love to change places with her. What an idiot.
Particularly challenging for women students are the group projects that arethe hallmark of science engineering and technology classes:The men don’t want us to work with them on projects. When we do theygive us these stupid jobs to do. If we say anything they look at each other,so I just stopped saying anything.My computer classes don’t usually have any girls I know . . . when thereare any other girls in there. I feel like all the male students know each other.I end up with the other girls whether or not I want to work with them.When I have guys who don’t want me in their groups or don’t give me enoughto doI just shut up. If more women would do this there wouldn’t be so manyproblems. I think doing stuff like this just makes it worse for everyone.I hate group projects. The guys don’t really want to work with me. Most ofthe professors don’t seem to care one-way or the other. I think they’d all behappier if we just disappeared.Some of the women surveyed appear to be demoralized by the male studentsin their classes who seem more knowledgeable and confident in their abilities.They feel a lack of respect for their abilities:Computers are not enjoyable for me anymore because I feel stupid in myclasses when guys overachieve in everything they do. They always answerall the questions.Men often times think that women are not knowledgeable with computers.They think they are more logical.Guys in my classes sometimes have that “I am better and can do it better”attitude. That really makes me mad.I know some of the members think or SAY they think there is no problem.There is. There is a big problem. Ignoring it won’t get rid of it.It should be noted that some women students though a decided minority didreact positively seeing their small numbers as a challenge to succeed:It is a great feeling to excel in an area that is mostly males.It gives women a great opportunity to excel in a predominantly male career.Guys tend to take over the groups and try to do everything. It’s fun though,because I know more than most of them. I just sit there and wait for themto mess up.Many of the students believe that both the male and female faculty neededucation about issues concerning women students in mostly male classrooms:Some of the professors kind of roll their eyes when you ask a question.They don’t seem to think you have any brains.
Professors sometimes disrespect me in class. That hurts.We need to learn to speak up for ourselves when we have professors whodon’t treat us equally. What should we say to them so that we don’t get a badgrade? I feel funny saying anything when I know I may see the same professornext semester.The students identified women mentors and role models as critical needs forwomen students in the School of Technology:I wish we had more women professors we could go to with our problems.We don’t know what to do that won’t make people angry with us. Who doyou complain to?I’d like to meet more women who have computer-type careers. Maybe thenI’d get some idea of what I’d like to do.I think I would have liked to have a mentor may be some one from business.I didn’t meet any female professors especially in my computer classes,who seemed to care. I’m changing majors. I think I might have stayed if Ihad someone to talk to.Don’t worry so much about getting people to come to the school. Worryabout what happens to us when we get here. I hope there’s going to be amentoring program. That’s what you should really do. Get mentors for thestudents that are here already.RETENTION STRATEGIESAt the end of the semester the results of the survey were shared with the Womenin Technology students. Although the members were keenly aware that womenwere a minority within the School of Technology many of them were shocked byexactly how few women faculty and students there are. They were also relieved tohear how many of their struggles were shared by the other members of the group.Some of the research surrounding empowerment through student-driven ratherthan faculty-driven organizations was discussed as well as some of the theorybehind networking mentoring/learning communities. Then the students weredivided into focus groups and asked to identify strategies that would addressthe concerns that were revealed in the surveys. Seven suggestions for the groupemerged from those discussions:. Invite the women professors to dinner so that we can all get to know them.. Have a retreat so that the members will really get to know one another.Keep networks between members open. Go out to dinner hang out discussthings and get to REALLY know each other.. Create a living-learning center so that women students in technology canstudy together live together and take classes together. There are otherson campus.
. Begin a mentoring program for all students. Perhaps we could also havewomen mentors already in the workplace especially ones who have gonethrough this program.. Create support groups within departments so we can discuss commonproblems and concerns and how to deal with them.. Create an outreach program with area high schools to encourage morewomen to go into technology careers.. Devote one Women in Technology meeting a month to discussing theissues from the survey like how to get more women students into theSchool of Technology how to make women more comfortable in theSchooletc.One suggestion emerged for their faculty advisors: educate the faculty aboutissues affecting women students in the School.Implementation of Retention StrategiesIn Fall Women in Technology members supported by their facultyadvisors began the work of implementing the strategies they had identified intheir focus groups:. The students held a fall retreat at the home of one of their advisors. All ofthe  women professors at the School of Technology were invited  attended.The students plan to invite them again to their end-of-the-year dinner. Theyhave decided to make these annual events to ensure that the members come toknow one another and the women faculty as well.. The students and their faculty advisors worked with the Office of theProvost to create a living/learning center for School of Technology womenwithin the residence hall that houses the Women in Engineering center. Studentswill be offered the opportunity to enroll in the Women in Technology ResidentialProgram Fall . Several Women in Technology members will live on thefloor as well as serve as the students’ tutors and mentors. The intent of thislearning community is two-fold: first to create a supportive community ofwomen within the school to help sustain its members through to graduationsecond to develop this community to an enduring network of colleagues whocan serve as resources throughout their careers.. In response to the women students’ expressed desire for mentors in theworkplace women alumnae from the School of Technology who have establishedcareers will be invited to campus as speakers for a new freshman course entitledWomen in Technology: Exploring the Possibilities. In this course the alumnaewill share their strategies for success and for balancing career and family withthe students. They will also serve as mentors for the students throughout theirstudent years.. The students wanted to encourage more women to enroll in the Schoolof Technology. To that end they invited a representative from Project Lead The
Way a national alliance for pre-engineering programs in middle schools andhigh schools to speak at one of their meetings. Twice a yearProject Lead TheWay invites area middle and high school students to Purdue’s campus for anall-day workshop. These students explore technology career options and participatein hands-on projects in state-of-the-art on-campus laboratories. Women inTechnology members will now serve as their mentors remaining in touch withthem after the program ends. It is their hope that by mentoring these middle andhigh school students a significant number of them will be encouraged to attendPurdue and to enroll in the School of Technology.


The issues revealed in the survey continue to be discussed at meetings.Students also strategize about ways in which they can contribute to improving thecampus climate for other women within their school particularly by increasingthe number of women students enrolled.As the students requested these data were shared with faculty and staffand strategies for making women students feel more welcome in technologyclassrooms have been explored.Women in Technology’s effectiveness as a student organization will bemeasured by the number of women students who actively participate and by thenumber of women students the school enrolls and retains until graduation. Asis the case with all student-run organizations the turnover of the membership eachyear as students graduate and new students join threatens the continuity ofinitiatives limiting the group’s effectiveness.A continual effort that seeks to understand the student issues and addresstheir needs is a necessary first step. The faculty advisors will continue to gatherdata and information in order to assess the progress that has been made andto target areas that still need to be improved. The women students will continueto be involved in all efforts at effecting change. The problems identified aboveare in the final analysis their problem and they need to be at the center ofany solution.

This paper situates current discussions of women’s position in ICTs in the widercontext of feminist debates on gender and technology. While a common trendamong early feminist theorists was a profound pessimism about the inherent masculinityof technology this was replaced during the s by an unwarrantedoptimism about the liberating potential of techno science for women. Thisarticle gives an account of both technophobia and technophiliaarguing thatrecent approaches drawing on the social studies of technology provide a moresubtle analysis. Avoiding both technological determinism and gender essentialism,techno feminist approaches emphasize that the gender–technology relationshipis fluid and flexible and that feminist politics and not technology per se isthe key to gender equality.

Feminist theories of gender and technology have come a long way over the lasttwo decades. While much early second-wave feminism generated a fatalismthat emphasized the role of technology in reproducing patriarchy duringthe s cyber feminist writers celebrated digital technologies as inherentlyliberatory for women. In recent years feminist scholars have produced animportant body of work bridging the gap between technophobia and technophilia.Much of it has developed in tandem with the burgeoning field ofscience and technology studies. The resulting literature is generally morecritical of techno science while at the same time aware of its potential toopen up new gender dynamics. Current approaches focus on the mutualshaping of gender and technology where neither gender nor technology istaken to be pre-existing nor is the relationship between them immutable.Such a co-construction approach provides a compelling critique of populararguments and social theories that were and still are characterized by
technological determinism. Rather than technology per se being credited asthe main agent of change feminist politics is recognized as the key togender equality.This article provides an overview of the various approaches to conceptualizingthe link between gender and technology both past and present. Inturning to this taskI should emphasize that feminist discussions havealways taken diverse and overlapping forms. While standard histories offeminist thought tend to present liberal socialist and radical feminisms forexample as distinct perspectives in reality there were always interconnectionsand they certainly did not develop as independent strands or ina simple chronological order. For our purposes hereI present the differentstreams rather schematically in order to highlight their contrastingperspectives.The early groundworkA core concern of the women’s movement since its inception has beenwomen’s limited access to scientific and technical institutions and professions.Many national and international studies have identified the structural barriersto women’s participation looking at sex discrimination in employment andthe kind of socialization and education that girls receive which have channelledthem away from studying mathematics and science Rossiter Keller  Harding . Sex stereotyping in schools has been exposed,particularly the processes by which girls and boys are channelled into differentsubjects in secondary and tertiary education and the link between educationand the segregated labour market. Explaining the under-representation ofwomen in science education laboratories and scientific publications researchhas highlighted the construction and character of femininity encouraged byour culture.For liberal feminism in the s and the solution was posed interms of getting more women to enter science and technology – seeingthe issue as one of equal access to education and employment. Rather thanquestioning techno science itself it was generally assumed that science isintrinsically open concerned with unbiased and objective research. Theissue was framed in terms of the uses and abuses to which a fundamentallygender neutral science and technology has been put by men. Feministwriting in this vein focused on gender stereotypes and customary expectations,and denied the existence of sex differences between women andmen. If girls were given the right opportunities and encouragement theycould easily become scientists and engineers. Remedying the gender deficitwas seen as a problem that could be overcome by a combination of differentsocialization processes and equal opportunity policies.
The strengths and limitations of equal employment opportunity policieshave been much debated over the intervening decades Bacchi . Whatis beyond doubt however is the extent and intransigence of women’smarginalization from scientific and technical pursuits. Feminists at thattime pointed out that the liberal feminist tradition located the problem inwomen their socialization their aspirations and values and did not ask thebroader questions of whether and in what way techno science and its institutionscould be reshaped to accommodate women. Women were being askedto exchange major aspects of their gender identity for a masculine versionwithout prescribing a similar ‘degendering’ process for men.Such critiques emphasized that in addition to gender structures theculture of technology is important in making it a male domain. Technologieshave a masculine image not only because they are dominated by menbut because they incorporate symbols metaphors and values that have masculineconnotations. Women’s reluctance ‘to enter’ is to do with the sex stereotypedassociation of technology as an activity appropriate for men. Aswith science the very language of technology its symbolism is masculine.It is not simply a question of acquiring skills because these skills areembedded in a culture of masculinity that is largely conterminous with theculture of technology. Both at school and at the workplace this culture isincompatible with femininity. Therefore to enter this world to learn itslanguage women have first to forsake their femininity.While liberal feminism conceived of the problem as one of equality ofaccess and opportunity socialist and radical feminisms analysed the genderednature of techno scientific knowledge and culture and put the spotlight onartefacts themselves. The social factors that shape different technologiescame under scrutiny especially the way technology reflects gender divisionsand inequalities. The problem was not only men’s monopoly of technology,but also the way gender is embedded in technology itself. In other words,feminist analyses of technology were shifting beyond the approach of‘women and technology’ to examine the very processes whereby technologyis developed and used as well as those whereby gender is constituted. Thisapproach took two broad directions: one influenced by radical feminism,the other identified with socialist feminism.An important precept of radical and cultural feminism is that Westerntechnology like science is deeply implicated in the masculine project ofthe domination and control of women and nature. These feminisms emphasizegender difference and celebrate what they see as specifically feminine such aswomen’s greater human is pacific nurturance and spiritual development.The idea that what was ‘specifically feminine’ was socially produced was abandonedand notions of ineradicable difference flourished. This approachhas been particularly influential in relation to the technologies of humanbiological reproduction Corea et al. WOMEN AND TECHNOLOGY TO GENDERED TECHNOSCIENCE It is fuelled by the perception that the processes of pregnancy and childbirth
were directed and controlled by ever more sophisticated and intrusive technologies.Radical feminists’ strong opposition to the development of thenew reproductive technologies such as IVF during the s reflectedfears of patriarchal exploitation of women’s bodies. There was a call fornew technology to be based on female rather than male values.These approaches took the debate regarding gender and technologybeyond the use/abuse model focusing on the political qualities of technology.Where liberal feminism saw power in terms of relations between individualpeople radical feminism emphasized the way in which gender power relationswere embedded more deeply within science and technology. They were also aforceful assertion of women’s interests and needs as being different frommen’s and highlighted the way in which women are not always well servedby current technologies. However in representing women as inherently nurturingand pacifist they also perpetuated a tendency to gender essentialism.The historical and cultural specificity of our modern understanding ofwomen as being radically other than men was overlooked. Too often theresult was a pessimistic portrayal of women uniformly as victims of patriarchaltechnoscience.While women’s bodies and sexuality were the focus of radical feminism,socialist feminism concentrated on the machinery of production. It was widelybelieved that microelectronic technology would have a negative impact onwomen’s work and this led to a pronounced anti-technology stance. Therewere fears that computerization of office work for example would lead todeskilling with jobs fragmented into routine and standardized tasks subjectto the control of the machine. Influenced by Marxist analyses of technologicalchange resulting from class conflict feminist researchers revealed how thecapitalist division of labour intersected with sexual divisions. A crucial historicalperspective was brought to bear on the analysis of men’s monopolyof technology. Extensive research on manufacturing and engineering demonstratedthat women’s exclusion from technology was as a consequence of themale domination of skilled trades that developed during the industrial revolutionCockburn  Milkman  Bradley . Craft workers  typicallyseen as the defenders of working-class interests in disputes over technicalchange resisted the entry of women to skilled technical jobs in order toprotect their own conditions. Industrial technology from its origins thusreflected men’s designs and is a defining feature of masculinity.Socialist feminist frameworks then saw masculinity as embedded in themachinery itself highlighting the role of technology as a key source of malepower Cockburn  McNeil  Webster  Wajcman .Instead of treating artefacts as neutral or value-freesocial relations includinggender relations are materialized in tools and techniques. Technology wasseen as socially shaped but shaped by men to the exclusion of women.
While this literature did reflect an understanding of the historical variabilityand plurality of the categories of ‘women’ and ‘technology’ it was neverthelesspessimistic about the possibilities of redesigning technologies for genderequality. The proclivity of technological developments to entrenchgender hierarchies was emphasized rather than the prospects they afford forchange. In short not enough attention was paid to women’s agency. And itis precisely this rather negative register that provoked a reaction from anew generation of feminist scholars.
Contemporary approachesFeminist approaches of the s and today are much more positive about thepossibilities of ICTs to empower women and transform gender relations. Indeed,early concerns about women being left out of the communications revolution,victims of the digital divide now seem exaggerated. A proliferation of mobilephones the Internet and cyber-cafe´s are providing new opportunities andoutlets for women particularly those in highly industrialized countries whoare better placed to take advantage of these technologies. While the earlyadopters of the Internet and mobile phone were predominantly men,studies in recent years have found narrowing gender differences in adoptionrates. For example while male ownership of mobile telephony is stillhigher across Western Europe the gaps are not very wide and in theUnited States women now slightly exceed men in mobile phone ownership. Certainly in wealthier countries wherediffusion levels are high the gender gap is disappearing.Given the dramatic changes in the ownership and use of digital technologies,many postmodern cyber feminists enthusiastically embrace Web-basedtechnologies. A common argument in this literature is that the virtuality ofcyberspace and the Internet spelt the end of the embodied basis for sex differenceMillar  Plant . According to Sadie Plant forexample digital technologies facilitate the blurring of boundaries betweenhumans and machines and between male and female enabling their usersto choose their disguises and assume alternative identities. Industrialtechnology may have had a patriarchal character but digital technologies,based on brain rather than brawn on networks rather than hierarchy,herald a new relationship between women and machines. Writers such asPlant are interested in revalorizing the feminine bringing woman’s radicalalternate her difference into being. For them the Internet and cyberspaceare seen as feminine media providing the technological basis for a newform of society that is potentially liberating for women. According to thisview women rather than mena re uniquely suited to life in the digital age.
Perhaps the optimism of this postmodern literature is best summed upby Donna Haraway who urges us to embrace the positive potentialof science and technology. She is sharply critical of those who rejecttechno science in favor of a return to a mythical unpolluted natural state.Famously and provocatively she prefers to be a ‘cyborg’ – a hybrid of organismand machine parts – rather than an ecofeminist ‘goddess’. She notes thegreat power of science and technology to create new meanings and newentities to make new worlds. She positively revels in the very difficulty ofpredicting what technology’s effects will be and warns against any puristrejection of the ‘unnatural’ hybrid entities produced by biotechnology.Genetic engineering reproductive technology and the advent of virtualreality are all seen as fundamentally challenging traditional notions ofgender identity. As such they mark a transformation in the relationshipbetween women and technology.In looking forward to what ICTs and biotechnologies may make possible,such writers elaborate a new feminist ‘imaginary’ different from the ‘materialreality’ of the existing technological order. Haraway’s ground-breaking workhas been particularly influential among feminist techno science STS scholarsand she epitomizes the challenge to second-wave feminism’s tendency toportray women as victims. Instead women’s agency and capacity for empowermentare stressed. Young women in particular are orienting and experiencingthemselves differently in relation to new media technologies comparedwith previous generations. Developments in digital technologies do call forsome radical rethinking both of the processes of technological innovationand of their impact on the culture and practices of everyday life.However uncritical enthusiasm for everything digital has exposed postmodernliterature to charges of technological determinism – albeit of acelebratory rather than pessimistic bent. In common with other proponentsof the progressive impact of information and biotechnologies cyberfeministsinsist on distinguishing new technologies from more established ones anddownplay any continuities between them. While women have been activelyengaged in constructing hybrid transgendered identities through their consumptionof new media for example diary writing on web logs is apopular activity among young women the possibility and the fluidity ofgender discourse in the virtual world is constrained by the material world.Consider for a moment the hype about Second Life an online virtual worldwith over one million registrations http://www.secondlife.com. It is asophisticated D space designed for adult ‘residents’ who can imaginativelycreate avatars homes and entire lifestyles using in-world currency. It iswidely seen as promoting anti-establishment values yet it has becomea major source of virtual pornography apparently well suited to those witha taste for sadomasochistic forms of sex.Such fantasy cyber worlds then are not necessarily comfortable cultural
environments for women to inhabit. To move forward we need to continueto refine our understanding of the relationship between ICTs and gender sothat we do not treat technology as either inherently patriarchal or unambiguouslyliberating.Techno feminism: combining feminist and technologystudiesOver the last two decades feminist writing within the field of science andtechnology studies STS has theorized the relationship between gender andtechnology as one of mutual shaping. A shared idea in this tradition is thattechnological innovation is itself shaped by the social circumstances withinwhich it takes place. Crucially the notion that technology is simply theproduct of rational technical imperatives has been dislodged. Objects andartefacts are no longer seen as separate from society but as part of thesocial fabric that holds society together they are never merely technical orsocial. Rather the broad social shaping or constructivist approach treatstechnology as a socio technical product – a seamless web or network combiningartefacts people organizations cultural meanings and knowledge. It followsthat technological change is a contingent and heterogeneous process inwhich technology and society are mutually constituted.In terms of gender and ICTs feminist STS scholarship has explored theeffects of gender power relations on design and innovation as well as theimpact of technological change on the sexes. In common with Europeanresearch my own techno feminist approach conceives of technology as both asource and a consequence of gender relations. In other words gender relations can bethought of as materialized in technology and gendered identities and discoursesas produced simultaneously with technologies. Several empirical studies havedemonstrated that the marginalization of women from the technological communityhas a profound influence on the design technical content and use of artefacts.Importantly this co-production of gender and technology does not endwith the innovation and design process. Feminist research has been at the forefrontof moves to deconstruct the designer/user divide and that between productionand consumption emphasizing the connectedness of all phases oftechnological development. This is an importantmoveas standard STS case studies focus on the groups or networks that activelyseek to influence the direction of technological developments. Women’s systematicabsence from these sites of observable conflict is not often understoodto indicate the mobilization of gender interests. For feminists women’s
absence from particular socio techncial networks is as telling as the presence ofother actors and even a condition of that presence. This points to the need toexamine the ways in which the gendering of technology affects the entire lifetrajectory of an artefact. Integrating detailed studies of design manufacture,marketing purchase and consumption allows a range of social and culturalfactors including gender to become apparent. For this reason technofeministapproaches stress that gendering involves several dimensions involvingmaterial discursive and social elements. It is precisely this intricate interweavingof artefacts culture and gendered identities in techno scientific practice thathelps to explain why this link has proved so durable.So farI have been stressing how embedded gender relations are in thedesign meaning and use of ICTs. HoweverSTS scholarship increasinglyrecognizes that the social meanings of technology are contingently stabilizedand contestable that the fate of a technology depends on many social factorsthat cannot simply be read off fixed sets of power arrangements. Introducingterms like ‘interpretative flexibility’ and ‘domestication’ helps to capture theidea that the particular affordances of a technology are not given and predictablePinch & Bijker  Haddon . The interpretation reading andmaking sense of technologies are constant features of everyday life. Feministtheorists are now much more aware of both the contradictory effects of ICTson women and the different meanings the same artefact might have for differentgroups of women. Indeed the concept of gender itself is now understoodas a performance or social achievement constructed in interaction. It is theproduct of a moving relational process emerging from collective and individualacts of interpretation. As a result the twin pitfalls of technological determinismand gender essentialism are much less in evidence.The relationship between gender and ICTs then is not immutably fixed.While the design process is decisive technologies also yield unintended consequencesand unanticipated possibilities. ICTs are socio technical or socio materialconfigurations that exhibit different degrees of determination andcontingency at different moments in their relationship. The capacity ofwomen users to produce new advantageous readings of artefacts is dependenton their broader economic and social circumstances. For example a youngwoman in the West experiences her silver cell phone as a liberatingextension of her body. For her mother it may primarily be a tool to keeptrack of her daughter. For women working as traders in Bangladesh themobile phone provides the means to run businesses selling communicationservices to other women. There is enormous variability in gendering byplace nationality class race ethnicity sexuality and generation and thuswomen’s experience of ICTs will be diverse.The recent development of postcolonial techno science brings the globaldynamics in and around science and technology to the fore Anderson McNeil . It highlights the fact that too often STS studies,
including feminist contribution shave lacked or marginalized globalperspectives. The focus of the field has been predominantly Eurocentricand North American. By challenging the universalism of Western scienceand technology this literature serves as a reminder of the wider contextand conditions of living in the South. In doing soit also reveals the socialrelations of production that underpin consumption of ICTs. To continuewith the example above as material objects mobile phones are mass-producedin factories. Like other electronic devices such as laptops they require thescarce mineral Coltan the delivery of which feeds into military conflicts inCentral Africa and thus has very specific consequences for women. Feministframeworks are increasingly attuned to these relations of production and consumption,and their implications for global inequalities.

The literature on gender and technology has grown to become a broad anddiverse field. It foregrounds the need to investigate the ways in whichwomen’s identities needs and priorities are being reconfigured togetherwith digital technologies. This opens up fresh possibilities for studies thatare more attuned to how different groups of women users creativelyrespond to and assimilate numerous ICTs in diverse real-world locations.Despite women’s massive consumption of new media however thereality of women working in the ICT industries is less changed than mighthave been expected Gill  Perrons  Whitehouse . For allthe hyperbole about the network society it has not led to women’s full integrationinto its design. The Internet does not automatically transform everyuser into an active producer and every worker into a creative subject. Thepotential for empowerment offered by ICTs will largely be realized bythose groups with technical knowledge who understand the workings of themachine. Acquisition of this know-how will become ever more critical,and gender imbalance in technical expertise ever more telling.The central premise of feminist techno science is that people and artefactsco-evolve: the materiality of technology affords or inhibits the doing of particulargender power relations. Crucially such a perspective redefines theproblem of the exclusion of groups of people from technological domainsand activities. Whereas policy-makers and researchers explain the problemin terms of the deficiency of users such as women techno feminismexposes how the concrete practices of design and innovation lead to theabsence of specific users.There is increasing recognition that the development of effective ICTsrequires detailed knowledge of the sites and practices in and throughwhich the new technologies will literally be made to work Suchman
. While it is impossible to specify in advance the desirable designcharacteristics of artefacts and information systems that would guaranteemore inclusiveness it is imperative that women are involved throughoutthe processes and practices of shaping technological innovation. This maynot necessarily result in technologies that are friendly to both women andmenas women programmers for example may adopt a ‘gender script’ butit is a starting point. Drawing more women into design – the configurationof artefacts – is not only an equal employment opportunities issue but isalso crucially about how the world we live in is designed and for whom.There is ample scope for more empirical research on the gender relationsof ICTs. Just as gender relations are transforming so ICTs themselves arechanging and evolving over time. This will be ever more so as computingbecomes ubiquitous with digital devices increasingly embedded into everydaythings and objects part of our taken-for-granted environment and evenof ourselves. A focus on studying socio technical networks or systems,instead of singular technologies will then be increasingly necessary. ICTsare much more complex and flexible than the technologies that preoccupiedearlier generations of feminist scholars. We require more nuanced researchthat captures the increasingly complex intertwining of gender and techno scienceas an ongoing process of mutual shaping over time and acrossmultiple sites. It is important that for all the diversity of feminist voices,this reflect our shared concern with the hierarchical divisions markingrelations between men and women. We live in a technological culture asociety that is constituted by science and technology and so the politics oftechnology is integral to the renegotiation of gender power relations.
Gender differences in IT careers appear to be affecting the competitiveness of companies globally. It isposited that given the current labor shortage in the IT industry it has become more important than everto reduce sources of leakage in the IT career paths of women. A model of barriers faced by women inthe field of information technology is presented. Three distinct career stages of career choices persistenceand advancement are analyzed. At each stage the effects of social and structural factors which may actas barriers are identified and discussed. Social factors include social expectations work–family conflict andinformal networks while the structural factors are occupational culture lack of role models and mentors,demographic composition and institutional structures. A proposed research agenda is offered. It is suggestedthat these social and structural factors as well as their interactions will result in turnover of women in IT.European Journal of Information Systems  

This paper proposes that in response to the twoimportant factors of current labor dynamics in the ITfield and gender’s influence on technological innovativeness,it is important to promote womens’ entry andadvancement of women in the IT work force. Given thecurrent labor shortage in the IT industry turnover andretention issues have come to the forefront Maitland,. Several popular as well as academic sources pointtowards a HR shortage in IT McFarlanePfleeger & Mertz. Vitalari & Dell  havereported that the cost of filling a vacancy is as high as of the yearly salary for the position. In thisenvironment‘ women may prove to be a key resource ofskilled technology workers for international IT markets’Maitl and p . However despite a host of effortsto attract and keep women and minorities in computing,their retention and advancement continues to be a significantchallenge in computer-related disciplinesPfleeger & Mertz. As a resultmore and morecompanies are reassessing practices that may lead toturnoverincluding those related to balancing family andwork life Goff. Under these circumstances it hasbecome more important than ever to identify factorsaffecting women in IT careers that may act as sourcesof leakage in the pipeline of IT career paths. Once identified these barriers can be addressed and appropriate solutionsto overcome them can be found.McFarlane  has argued that since women nowaccount for a very large portion of the workforce andoccupy an increasingly important position in the economy,the IT profession needs women in its ranks so thatit can really represent those who are carrying out thework. The US Bureau of Census  suggests thathigher percentages  of women than men  inthe US labor force are computer users. This argument isstrengthened by the recent studies on effects of genderthat suggest that gender can play an important role indetermining technology use Gefen and StraubVenkatesh & Morris Venkatesh et al. Forinstance Venkatesh et al.  found gender differencesin individual adoption and sustained usage of technologyin the workplace. In their study men’s decisionsin this regard were more strongly influenced by theirattitude toward using the new technology while womenwere more strongly influenced by subjective norm andperceived behavioral control. The findings were robustacross income organization position education andcomputer self-efficacy.Gefen and Straub  have argued that gendereffects are themselves largely cultural differencesCoates Tannen. Srite  examined theinfluence of national culture on technology acceptancebehaviors while controlling for gender found both thesefactors to be influential in explaining technology acceptance.Many have suggested that proportional presence ofwomen in higher ranks where decision-making takes
place will go a long away toward making the workplaceconducive to womens’ needs. However tradejournals and academic research alike have confirmed thatwomen in IT fields are concentrated at the lower andmiddle levels and are under-represented at the higherlevels Frenkle Myers MarenghiMulqueen.In one of very few academic studies on gender differencesin IT careersTruman and Baroudi  concludedthat this field may not be immune to the problemsof gender discrimination. They analyzed the data gatheredby the Society of Information Management SIMand found that women received lower salaries than meneven when job levelage education and work experiencewere controlled. They also observed that there were adisproportionately high number of men in the managerialranks. Investigating this issue further Igbaria and Baroudi investigated the impact of gender on jobperformance evaluations job performance attributionsand career advancement prospects. Although they didnot find any significant differences in job performanceratings they reported that women are perceived to haveless favorable chances for promotion than men. Igbariaand Baroudi call for further research in this area andstate:‘... future research should explore the potential barriersto promotability among women who have aspirations toIS upper management and executive careers. We needto look at the reasons for the existence of the barriersand possible ways to overcome them’. p emphasismineThis paper aims to respond to this call. Though thetopic of womens’ participation in management has beenaddressed from a variety of directions no definitivework has presented a model that explains the role ofwomen in the field of IT in a comprehensive manner.There is a need to understand this role what the futuremay hold and how or if IT differs from other professionalendeavors in offering opportunities to women.In this paper my goal is to identify the social and structuralfactors that may contribute to the status of womenin IT. I propose a life-cycle stage model of factors constrainingwomens’ entry and advancement in the field.The model when tested may help explain the pyramidstructure of womens’ presence in the field of IT. Whilemany of the issues discussed are specific to IT someare global issues that have resulted from organizationalchanges occurring in response to two critical forces –slowed economic growth in developed nations and theglobalization of most industries and organizations.State of the profession: women ininformation technologyInformation technology in this paper refers to ‘supportfor other people’s usage of computer systems’ Denning,. This definition allows the analysis and comparisonof a range of computer specialists WrightDenning.Most current statistics indicate that women accountfor only about  of technology workers in the Europeanworkforce and about  in the United Statestechnology workforce Maitland. Additionally,there seems to be a polarization in the type of workwhich men and women do. Shuttle worth  examinedthe position of women in the computing industryin the US and the UK and the impact of new technologyon women employed in information handling occupations.She found that the majority of women areemployed in routine and specialist work while men areengaged in analytical and managerial activities. Forexample in  of all data-entry clerks werefemale. They further found that  of males and only of the females in the survey had achieved seniormanagerial positions. Research in the UK and US wasconsistent. In the US in  of computer programmers,. of systems analysts US Departmentof Labor– and only  of upper managementslots in IT industry are estimated to be occupiedby women Myers Benditt.Despite predictions to the contrary Reese,these percentages have not improved in recent years. Inwomen occupied . of computer programmer,and . of systems analyst US Department of Labor, positions. According to the US Department ofLabor –the proportion of women in highlytechnical and analytical positions has practicallyremained constant for more than a decade . in and . in .In a survey on information systems IS demographics,salaries and job satisfaction reveal that the‘glass ceiling’ keeps women in midlevel jobs in the ISdepartment Bretts. The survey confirmed theexistence of a salary gap by gender. Bretts suggestedthat the reasons for the salary gap might be both structuraland social in nature. The reasons presented includethe observation that women did not enter the IS field inlarge numbers until the early s. Another reason isthat some women may pass up the chance to take higherpaying jobs because they choose not to relocate. Thegender differences in IT careers appear to be affectingthe competitiveness of countries globally. Tan and Igbaria found that in Singapore salaries vary by genderin many jobs. They suggest that this coupled withthe rapid growth of technology and the shortage of ITprofessionals has had an impact on the country’s competitiveness.Tan and Igbaria show that the turnover rateamong IT professionals in Singapore is high particularlyamong software professionals. Canada is also reporting asevere human resources shortage of people with softwareskills Van Brussel. In Canada women are saidto be under-represented in the IT industry at a rate of
 among software workers compared to  inwhite-collar jobs in other industries.In sum the statistics do not bear out the initial optimismshown regarding womens’ participation in the fieldof IT. Since IT is a relatively young field it had initiallybeen assumed that impediments to the advancement ofwomen long existent in other fields such as an established‘old boys’ network’a large pool of more qualifiedand experienced male professionals the lack of femalerole models and mentors and established discriminatorypractices would not present the same barriers to womenBerney. I argue that these viewpoints do notadequately take into account the variety of structural andsocial factors that inescapably and inevitably shapewomens’ careers in IT throughout industry and academia.A model of factors influencing women’sprofessional careers in ITIn this paperI propose a stage-model of barriers facedby women that affect their entry and performance in thefield. This stage-model draws upon the career developmentmodel incorporating a series of stages consistentwith those presented by Ragins and Sundstrom .Each stage or transition represents a set of opportunitiesand obstacles to attaining a powerful position in organizationsand builds upon the previous ones. The modelin this paper also relies on findings of previous researchsuggesting that men and women follow different pathsto power Kanter Gutek et al. Differencesin paths to power for men and women reflect well-documenteddifferences in the factors influencing their developmentthroughout their careers Ragins & Sundstrom,. This results in the presence of fewer women asthey move higher in the hierarchy. As a cautionary note,it is not the goal of this paper to imply that the IT fieldis more discriminatory than any other field but simplyto propose a testable model of barriers which may existin the field.The model examines effects of barriers for women onthree separate dependent variables – career choice,career persistence and career advancement in IT careers.These three dependent variables represent the threestages of an IT career. We suggest that several structuraland social factors affect womens’ careers in IT Figure. It is suggested that each of these barriers can serveFigure  Social and structural determinants of women’s careers in IT.as a source of leakage in the pipeline and make a cumulativecontribution to the IT labor shortage. In addition toa presentation of social and structural factors potentialinteraction effects of these factors at each stage are proposed.It is suggested that it is not sufficient to examinethese factors in isolation from one another as the ISliterature on gender has done so far. In order to developa rich understanding of IT careers it is crucial that interactionsamong these factors be considered.Social factorsThese are social and cultural biases that incorporate boththe internal view that women have of themselves self expectationsand the external view of womenstereotyping for example that is held by society in general.For example Sheinin  and others Barinaga, Konrad & Cannings have suggested thatone factor that explains gender differentials in salary andpromotions is the variety of roles that women assume –wife mother and caretaker – during peak periods of theirprofessional and academic careers. These social factorsoften result in self-selection into gender-typed professionsand positions within professions Ragins &Sundstrom.Structural factorsThe notion that the structure of institutions can work tolimit opportunities is not a new one Kanter Hennig& Jardin. Blum et al  found that structuralfactors account for almost half of the variance inthe percentage of women managers in organizations.Recent trends in IT towards globalization have also hamperedwomens’ chances of hiring retention and advancementin positions that require travel and long hours. Thisis so because women are perceived to be family-orientedand unwilling to travel or work late Blum & Smith,. In addition the IT profession requires employeesto constantly update their skills which may translate intolong hours. Lack of role models and mentors and theexisting proportion of women in the top ranks areexamples of structural factors.Dependent variablesThe dependent variables in this model are career choice,persistence and advancement. Career choices are madeduring university education and entry-level jobs. It isdefined as the ‘likelihood that a woman will choose ITas a career’. Career persistence becomes an issue whena woman is faced with issues related to starting and raisinga family. Operationally it is defined as ‘the likelihoodof not dropping out’ of the work force. The careeradvancement stage is comprised of the later years ofone’s career during which job status and salary becomeyardsticks of one’s overall career performance. Careeradvancement is the ‘likelihood that a woman will
advance in her career in the field of IT’. Figure  depictsthe model presented in this paper.It is important to note that that while all of the factorsdiscussed here can influence career choice persistence,as well as advancement is more likely to predominantlyinfluence one of these dependent variables. The mainsocial barriers to career choice in IT are social expectationsand work–family conflict. The two main structuralbarriers at this stage are a lack of role modelsandthe occupational culture existing in computer-relatededucation. Factors affecting the career advancementstage are the social barriers represented by informal networks,and structural barriers represented by lack ofmentors and the industry structure of IT.In the following sectionsI will discuss the effects ofvarious structural and social factors and their interactionon womens’ career choice and career advancement inthe field of IT.Career choice and persistenceAt the career choice stage women make the criticalchoices about the field in which they would like to pursuea career. I suggest that social expectations and work–family conflict play important roles in this decision. Atthe same time as women are influenced by both edu-Figure  A model of social and structural determinants of women’s career choice persistence and advancement in IT.cational institutions and industry structural factors beginto play larger roles in their careers. Shuttle worth investigated the role of traditional attitudes to women,education and training. She concluded that althoughwomen have the potential to take up new opportunitiesin this field many of them fail to see IT as an attractiveoption and are technically ill-equipped to do so.If a woman finds a way to overcome barriers that mayhave stopped her from choosing an IT career she maystill find that these factors continue to hamper her persistencein this career. Therefore issues related to careerpersistence and advancement are considered intertwinedand discussed under the same heading.Social factorsThe social barriers of social expectations and work–familyconflict are discussed in the following sections.Social expectationsSocial factors in this context are embedded in culturalvalues that are consciously or unconsciously reflectedin behavior. These values in turn play a role in shapingour own values and self-expectations. In ours as well asmost other societies girls and boys are given differentsignals in a variety of ways throughout their formative
years Kolata. For example boys are expectedand encouraged to use computers both at home andschool Fetler Turkle. Girls on the otherhandare less likely than boys to be sent to computerclasses and camps Didio. Alsogirls are steeredtoward softer subjects like liberal arts and literature andaway from mathematics and sciences. Regardless of thedebate on the extent of its effect the role of social expectationson confidence levels and performance in computerfields Collis Steering Committee onWomen in ScienceTechnologyTrades and Engineering, is well documented.As indicated earlier Gefen and Straub  haveargued that gender-related social expectations have rootsin national culture. For example on Hofstede’sHofstede scale of masculinity-versus-femininity,certain countries consistently show a masculine tendency.The USA and Switzerland show somewhat masculinetendencies  and  on a  to  scale where is the lowest and  is highest and Japan shows strongmasculine tendencies a score of  on the same scale.It has been suggested by Gefen  that gender relateddifferences and stereotypes are so strong thatmany societies have predetermined communicationstyles that are expected of women and men. Gefenfurther suggests that these expected communicationalstyles differ notably among national cultures. These culturesestablish gender differences in attitudes regardingcomputers in grade school Collis and these attitudeswiden with age Smith. Attitudes towardscomputers in turn have been correlated to achievementin the computer-related classes Fetler SteeringCommittee on Women in ScienceTechnologyTradesand Engineering.The effect of the social factors discussed above maybe evident in the gender differences in adoption and useof computer-mediated communication Gefen. Ingeneral studies have reported differences in terms ofcommunication styles computer conferencing Stowers,and the use of internet for a review of this literature,see Gefen. Gefen and Straub found that bothcross-cultural national and gender effects on the perceptionsof social presence usefulness and ease of use,but showed only cross-cultural effects on self-reportede-mail use. Specifically women were found to feel astronger sense of social presence than men in the samenational culture did and a stronger perception of the usefulnessof the software but felt the software to be lesseasy to use than the men did.Further significant differences have been shown toexist between electronic communication styles ofwomen and men in that women tend to use electroniccommunication for rapport building and men forreporting Gefen. Stowers similarly,showed that there was a gender difference in the use ofcomputer conferencing and found that men posted moreinformational items and women more discussion personaland support items. Interestingly training and supportreduced gender differences. Much of this literatureis in its infancy and many more studies are required tobuild a literature base in this area.Consistent with Gefen’s findings Colley et al. showed that girls and women are less likely to enjoy,use and fully adopt computers and computer tools at allstages of education. Women tend to participate less andare less comfortable with computers than are menMoldafsky & Kwon. The role of social expectationsin the gender differences in computer abilities hasbeen shown in Collis’s  work. Collis found thatgirls expressed general confidence in female abilitieswith regard to computers but did not display the sameconfidence in their own abilities as individuals displayinga ‘we can but I can’t’ syndrome.It is then no surprise that in general women have beenfound to display lower computer aptitude Fetler,and higher levels of computer anxiety Morrow et al, Igbaria and Chakrabarti compared to men.There is recent evidence from real world settings thatwomen tend to be more anxious than men about computeruse Bozionelos. A significant body ofresearch in psychology eg Hunt & Bohlin hasshown an inverse relationship between computer anxietyand computer self-efficacya known determinant of perceivedease of information systems use Venkatesh &Davis. Thusresearch suggests that higher levelsof computer anxiety among women can lead to lowerself-efficacy thus increasing their computer avoidanceIgbaria & Parasuraman Venkatesh & Morris,. Anxiety in general has also been found to benegatively related to performance and persistence in theprofession Brod Friend Humphreys &Revelle. All these factors may reduce womens’probability of first choosing and then persisting in ITcareers.Based on above discussion the following propositionsare presented:Proposition : Social expectations will negatively influenceattitudes towards computers and their use in women.Proposition : Attitudes formed regarding computers andtheir use will negatively influence the choice of IT as acareer in women.Proposition : Social expectations will negatively influencewomens’ persistence in IT careers.Work–family conflictWork–family can be a source of occupational stress. Inmany IT-related jobs workers are expected to work late,be on-call to solve technical problems and travel. Work–family conflict has been defined as ‘a form of inter-roleconflict that occurs when the demands of work and familyare mutually incompatible in some respects for
career-oriented men’ Higgins & Duxbury. Modelsof work–family conflict suggest that conflict ariseswhen demands of participation in one domain of life areincompatible with demands of participation in anotherdomain and that this conflict can have an importanteffect on the quality of both work and family lifeGreenhaus & Beutell Greenhaus  Netemeyeret al.Research in the s has recognized that the relationshipbetween work and family is bidirectional Gutek etal Frone et alie family can interfere withwork and vice versa. Following this line of thinking,Adams et al  attempted to distinguish betweenfamily–work conflict family interfering with work andwork–family conflict work interfering with family anddeveloped separate scales for each. They found that family–work conflict may be associated with level ofinvolvement with work. Higher level of work interferingwith family predicted lower emotional and instrumentalinvolvement.Work–family conflict has been negatively linked withseveral organizational outcomes including job-satisfaction,organizational commitment and distress on the jobWiley Frone et al Thomas & Ganster,. Although work–family conflict has not beendirectly linked with retention the outcomes discussedabove are likely to result in turnover in IT-related jobs.I propose that these outcomes are likely to be negativelyassociated with choice of IT as a career performance incomputer-related fields and advancement in the field.Research on work–family conflict has been examinedin organizational studies in the context of several differentfields for example police officers health care workers,engineers workers in the construction industry etc.,butto dateno research was specifically conducted withIT workers. There is a need for such an examination inthe context of IT workers because IT careers more thanmost other fields demand long hours travel and constantupdating of skills. All these factors are likely to lead towork–family conflict for both men and women. However,I propose that because women who have longfocused on family and children will experience thework–family conflict more than men in the IT industry.Many womens’ early career experiences coincide withthe stage in their lives when they are marrying and startinga family. At this stage in their lives professionalwomen are faced with trying to manage a career a homeand child-care. Additionally women who have full personallives may be viewed as lacking a strong commitmentto their work or not being as serious about theircareers as their male colleagues Barinaga.Research suggests that it is at this point that womenbegin to lag behind men in terms of promotions. Duxburyand Mills  did profile analysis of  dualcareer couples and found that women who put theircareers first or on par with their husband’s career facemore conflict at home than women who put their careerssecond. Alsomen and women who do not use the ‘electronicbriefcase’ working at home on the computer forwork experience similar levels of work–family conflictwhile the women who used the ‘electronic briefcase’experienced significantly more conflict than the menwho did and women who did not.Research has found that organizational structures donot provide enough flexibility to men and women indual-career marriages. Higgins and Duxbury examined differences in the antecedents and consequencesof work–family conflict with a homemakerspouse and those with a spouse in a career-oriented job.They found that dual-career men experience a significantspillover from their work domain. The authors suggestthat this spillover is due to a lack of structural flexibilityin the workplace. However many more women areaffected by this lack of flexibility than are men simplybecause a much larger percentage of women in the workplaceare in dual-career marriages. It is proposed:Proposition : Work–family conflict will negatively influencethe choice of IT as a career in women.Proposition : Work–family conflict will negatively influencewomens’ persistence in IT careers.Proposition : Female IT workers will experience higherlevels of work-family conflict than male IT workers.Structural factorsOccupational cultureA large number of studies have focused on differencesin computer education for boys and girls. These studies,in general have concluded that many girls are turned offcomputers and left unprepared for and uninterested incomputer careers Wright. Many researchers haveobserved that this may be because educational as wellas recreational computer software is mostly written forboys’ rather than girls’ interest Huff Cooper etal Maitland. Indeed as Kiesler et al have stated,the culture of computing may be a reasonable expectationfor the apparent difference in girls’ and boys’ attraction tocomputing. It is a world of electronic pool halls and sportsfields of circuits and machines of street-corner societytransmitted to a terminal room. This is hardly the kind ofworld girls find enticing’. p Turkle  has identified two ‘dominant computercultures’ that have emerged since the mid-s – thatof calculation and simulation. The culture of calculationtends to be rigorous and engineering in approach itinvolved hard programming that is performed in a ‘topdown’structured approach and is based on masculinity,‘mastery individualism and non sensuality’ Turkle,
p . Simulation is more consistent with ‘soft’style with which women are more comfortable Turkle,. She and others have suggested that culture of calculationis the dominant culture of computing Wright, and it has been instrumental in turning off manywomen to the field.This ‘occupational-culture’ prevalent in the world ofIT in universities and colleges incorporates exceptionallylong hours late nights and ‘highly focusedalmostobsessive behavior’ Frenkel. For many women,this work ethic may conflict with their safety concernsand family responsibilities. The hackers who are predominantlymale are seen as being ‘bright and creative’.Women remain on the periphery of this dominant culture.Missing out on valuable interaction with facultyand colleagues can translate into missed opportunitiesfor learning and participation in projects Rasmussen &Hapnes. Rasmussen and Hapnes suggest that thistype of culture is important in producing and reproducingmale domination in higher education in computer relatedfields and that it influences the integration ofwomen and their position within the field of computing.These and other factors have resulted in many highschool girls perceiving computer work as a ‘male fieldwhich is inhospitable to women’ Newton. I propose:Proposition : The perception of occupational culture willnegatively influence womens’ choice of IT as a career.Proposition : The perception of occupational culture willnegatively influence womens’ persistence in IT careers.Lack of role modelsAt the career choice stage where women make criticaldecisions about their careers the presence of role modelscan be very instrumental in steering them in one directionor the other. By their very presence role modelsprovide evidence that a successful career in the field isa possible and unremarkable occurrence Pearl.Since only  of upper management in the IT industryScience and . of faculty positions Frenkel, are held by women such guidance and supportfor female students is severely limited. Although I couldnot find such data for IS education in business schools,Camp  has characterized the educational pipelinein computer science CS as the ‘incredible shrinkingpipeline’ – due to the observation that not only does thepipeline shrink from high school to graduate school,bachelor’s degrees awarded in CS to women havedecreased almost every year over the last decade. In spiteof a slightly upward trend in PhDs only  of thosewere awarded to women in – Camp.Indeed Pfleeger and Mertz  have recognizedthat ‘despite a host of efforts to attract and keep womenand minorities in computing they continue to be underrepresentedacross the several computer science disciplines’p  and suggested that a major problem inattracting and keeping women in computing is the lackof role models at all levels particularly at senior levels.Educational and career encouragement has been foundto be more important in women than in men Tharenouet al. Given an environment into which girls andwomen may not be integrated encouragement foradvancement from role models has been found to beessential to increase womens’ awareness of the educationand training needed for IT skills.Further career choices in college are often made inconsultation with faculty members. If female studentslack female role models with whom they can discusscareer choices with relationship to life-style implications,they may not feel they have complete informationto evaluate their options in IT careers. Undersuch circumstances female students may by default,self-select themselves towards careers in which theyobserve other women thus further intensifying the gender-based stereotyping of professions. Thus:Proposition : A lack of role models will negatively influencewomens’ choice of IT as a career.Proposition : A lack of role models will negatively influencewomens’ persistence in IT careers.Interaction of social and structural factorsSocial and structural factors interact to produce variedpsychological and real barriers which may inhibitwomens’ learning and comfort with using computers.The occupational culture interacts with social expectationsto keep women outside the inner circles of IT.Limitations caused by work–family conflict may helpreinforce the stereotype that careers are only a secondpriority for women. Social expectations may have alower influence in presence of strong role models in theenvironment. Presence of role models may also facilitatea higher understanding of work–family conflict issues,further helping retention of women in the workplace.Further research is required to investigate the processby which the factors discussed in this section lead todemographical trends in the field of IT so that interventioncan be targeted most effectively.The relationship between social and structural factorsis likely to be recursive. For example job openings arefrequently publicized through faculty members whoalso act as role models. Faculty members may recommendstudents with whom they interact. Presence ofwork–family conflict is likely to reduce female students’interaction with faculty members. Faculty members mayalso perceive female students with work–family conflictas less suitable to an IT career than those who do havework–family conflict. Thus work–family conflict maylead to reduced likelihood of being recommended foremployment.Evidence suggests that structured exposure to computer software minimizes gender differences in attitudesand use in college freshmen while unstructured conditionsas represented by occupational culture of longhours and late nights amplify this difference Arch &Cummins. This early evidence needs to be investigatedfurther and if found true should be incorporatedin training programs.It is encouraging that sufficient training experienceand lack of gender stereotyping may reduce the genderdifferences in computer anxiety attitudes towards computersand computer usage Stowers Venkateshet al. In line with these arguments the followingpropositions are presented:Proposition a: The relationship between social and structuralbarriers at career choice stage is likely to be recursive.Proposition b: The relationship between social and structuralbarriers at career persistence stage is likely to be recursive.Proposition : Computer training and structured supportwill reduce the negative effect of social expectations on attitudestowards computers in women.Career advancementAfter several years of work experience men and womenare considered ready for higher-level positions. I call thisa stage of career advancement. To my knowledge onlyone academic study so far has directly examined genderdifferences in career advancement in the field of computingIgbaria & Baroudi. Broadly they found thatwomen experience more restricted career advancementthan men. In contrast men experience more favorablecareer opportunities than women do. Further theyreported that while the career advancement prospectswere less affected by job performance ratings but moreon job attributions performance attributed to ability,hard work etc on career advancement prospects isstronger among women. Gender biases in attributions arelikely to be invoked only when womens’ high job performanceratings violate gender-roles stereotypes andexpectations Heilman & Stopeck. Calling formore research in this area Igbaria and Baroudi suggest that career advancement opportunities for menand women can be evened out if similar criteria wereused for both groups.Providing support for existence of barriers at thisstage Shuttle worth in her study investigating therole of traditional attitudes to women education andtraining reported that while  of males in the surveyhad achieved senior managerial positions only  offemales had been able to do so. Researchers have foundthat while men experience some greater task-relateddevelopmental challenges women experience developmentalchallenges stemming from obstacles they face intheir jobs. In a similar longitudinally examined careertransitions in the development of power among men andwomen and found a consistent difference favoring menin accessibility to and utility of resources for power.They suggested that the processes involved in the developmentof power differ for men and women and that thepath to power for women resembles an obstacle course.A related point is that rank is directly related to powerRagins & Sunderstrom and the fact that fewerwomen exist at the higher ranks results in fewer womenhaving access to power echelons in the organizations.Ragins and Sundstrom  propose that severalorganizational factors might account for gender-baseddifferences in advancement. These include performanceappraisals that have traditionally been tailored to a malepattern of advancement as well as selection of men forjobs and training that are likely to lead to advancement.With respect to advancement of women in IT careers,structural barriers are the hardest to overcome. Yet,social barriers still play a major role. The main socialbarrier is lack of participation in informal networks. Ibelieve that work–family conflict continues to be a barrier,but is not as overpowering as it may have beenat the career choice stage. This is because child-rearingbecomes less consuming as children grow up andbecause by this time many women may have establishedmechanisms for managing issues related to work–familyconflict eg seeking hired help. Work–family conflicthas been discussed extensively in the previous sectionand will not be discussed here. Two structural barriersthat are considered important in the context of IT careersare a lack of mentors and the changing structure of ITindustry itself.Social factorsInformal networksInformal networks have long been recognized asimportant in career advancement Smith-Lovin &McPherson. These  informal networks can serveseveral purposes ranging from obtaining informationregarding opportunities in the organization to socializationin the organizational culture. Informal networksmay have a reciprocal relationship with mentoring,which is discussed in the next section. For example theyallow a prote´ge´ to be exposed to potential mentors. Onthe other hand a mentor is a link for the prote´ge´ to gainentry into the social networks within the organization.However Ragins and Cotton  have shown thatcorporate informal networks are primarily made up ofmen. While the lack of access to informal networks mayplay a role in women choosing IT as a careerorganizations often rely on informal networks forrecruiting this factor becomes increasingly importantfor advancement within the organization and within thefield. These informal networks are effective tools for
male advancement that had been established beforewomen started climbing the professional ladders. Someof this network often referred to as the ‘old boy’s club’,is based on masculine activities which reflect traditionalsocial and cultural roles such as sports talk golf tournaments,etc and other shared experiences as a means forbuilding camaraderie. Unfortunately the failure ofwomen to achieve upper-level positions or gain accessto those in such positions tends to perpetuate the establishedinformal network structures. As studies suggest,women are often left out of these informal networks of‘power sharing and dissemination’ across industry andacademia Kram Ragins & Cotton.Gallos  has observed that while career developmentfor men typically translates into increased autonomyand separation from others career developmentfor women is tied more to attachments and relationships.Gallos further suggested that while relationships areimportant for men in later career stages when they faceimmortality and generativity issues relationships areimportant for women throughout their careers. In a studyof  male and  female executivesVan Velsor andHughes  found that women reported a greaterreliance on work relationships as sources of developmentand learning.The above leads to the following:Proposition : During the career advancement stage a lackof female-friendly informal networks will negatively influencewomens’ advancement in the field of IT.Structural factorsMentoringResearchers and practitioners alike have expressed concernthat the IT field is not developing and advancingenough women to the higher ranks. One reason for thismay reside in a lack of mentoring opportunities forwomen. If we are to ensure that organizations select theiremployees from a complete and broad pool of humanresources they must ensure that women employees haveample mentoring opportunities.Mentoring has been found to be critical in theadvancement of professional careers KramDreher & Ash . Mentoring is ‘an intense developmentalrelationship of relatively long duration in whichproteege´ receives a range of career and psychological helpexclusively from one senior manager Levinson et al, Clawson Kram’ Whiteley et al,p . A mentor is ‘an experienced productivemanager who relates well to a less-experiencedemployee and facilitates his or her personal developmentfor the benefit of the individual as well as that of theorganization’ Noep . This relationship maybe formal or informal.
In general research has shown that although womencan benefit as much from mentoring as men there is alack of female mentors in organizations WarihayNoe students of & Kram. It hasbeen suggested that the number of mentoring relationshipsmentorships available to women does not appearto be keeping pace with the increasing number of womenneeding mentors Shockley & Stanley Berry,. I argue that a proactive facilitation of mentorshipsmay be beneficial for development and advancement ofwomen in IT careers. While several studies have successfullydemonstrated the effect of mentoring onwomens’ advancement in various areas KramBurketo my knowledge no studies have beenconducted to assess its effect in the field of IT.Research has suggested that women face more gender relatedinterpersonal and organizational barriers in theirobtaining a mentor than men Kram RaginsRagins & Cotton. Some researchers suggestedthat the lack of female mentors in organizations couldbe explained by the fact that women in high positions donot want to share the limelight with others and becausecompetitive feelings toward other women prevent themfrom filling this role Powell & Mainiero Gallese, Parker & Kram Ragins & Scandura,p . Counter to these suggestions Ragins and Scandura found that the desire to become a mentor isas strong for women as it is for men.There may be some other factors that can explain alack of mentoring for women in organizations. Oneexplanation for a lack of mentors for women can befound in the theory of interpersonal attraction. Thetheory of interpersonal attraction posits that individualsare most comfortable interacting with those who aresimilar to them Dreher & Ash. This theory suggeststhat similarity with another person yields more favorableperceptions of and greater liking for that personHeider. Similarity to others has been linked withseveral individual and organizational outcomes. Kirchmeyer found that similarity to others at the samemanagerial level in terms of gender cultureage andeducation determined career progression and perceivedsuccess over time. A lack of women at higher rankstherefore may have a negative influence on advancementof women at lower and middle levels. In other studies,dissimilarity has been linked with turnoverKirchmeyer.This theory has indeed been empirically tested in thecontext of mentoring relationships. This research hassuggested that gender similarity is a key factor in thesuccess of mentoring relationships and a lack of womenavailable to mentor other women is generally detrimentalto womens’ professional development. The research hasfurther shown that men and women prefer interactingwith members of the same sex in the work environmentLarwood & Blackmore. As a result women
may find themselves without a mentor because malemanagers may prefer developing mentorships with malesubordinates’ Noep.. Kram  also concludedthat men and women find it more comfortable tomentor proteege´s of the same gender. Researchers havesuggested that men may sometimes be afraid to mentorwomen because of the greater risk that stems from theperception that women tend to be highly visible and toattract attention. The senior managers may perceive agreater risk of receiving adverse publicity which couldstymie the attainment of his or her own career goals ifthe mentorship is unsuccessful Noe.A final reason for a lack of mentors may be thatwomen have less access to informal settings necessaryfor initiating and building mentor relationships Hunt &Michael. Further  traditional expectation forwomen is to take a passive role in initiating relationshipsHill et al.. One way to do this isto better understand the factors that make a mentoringrelationship effective.Riley and Wrench  have reported that womenwho had one or more mentors experienced greater jobsuccess and job satisfaction than women who did nothave a mentor. Some researchers have argued that thebenefits of mentoring may be amplified for women. Considerthe following statement made by Ragins and Scandura‘women may expect and receive greaterbenefits from the mentoring relationship than men notonly because the relationship meets their developmentalneeds but also because mentoring role expectations aremore aligned with gender role expectations for women.Specifically the essence of mentoring involves helpingprotege´s and nurturing their development. Thesebehaviors are certainly aligned more with traditionalfemale than male gender-role expectations’ p .As suggested above if mentoring is important for anyworker it may be even more important for women inthe sense that it could help women to overcome advancementbarriers Kanter. In general women facemore gender-related interpersonal and organizationalbarriers in their obtaining a mentor than men Kram, Ragins & Cotton. Women have less accessto informal settings necessary for initiating and buildingmentor relationships Hunt & Michael. Otherreasons for this may be that men and women find it morecomfortable to mentor protege´s of the same genderKram and the traditional expectation for women
to take a passive role in initiating relationships Hill etal. Thus:Proposition : A lack of mentors will negatively influencewomens’ career advancement in the field of IT.Organizational/institutional structureAnother factor that has a life-long effect on womens’professional careers is the structural forces at workwithin organizations. One measure of womens’ underrepresentationat the top is board membership. In general,researchers have found support for the gender biasin board memberships. It isimportant to pay attention to this bias because it represents‘the failure of corporate board leadership torecognize the competitive advantage represented in thesystematic recruitment of women from the corporate sector’. Some researchershave tried to examine the reasons behind this lack ofwomen in corporate boards. For exampleKent andMoss  studied effects of gender and sex role onself- and group-perceptions of leader emergence. Inaddition to biological gender they examined sex-rolesbased on personality traits. Interestingly subjects possessingandrogynous and masculine traits were the mostlikely to emerge as leaders. In other words personalitytraits that are perceived as feminine were found to bedetrimental to advancement of men as well as women.Current competitive forces such as globalization andthe flattening of organizational structures may haveserved as impediments to the magnitude of opportunitiesfor women in certain industries including informationtechnology Burris. Women are typically perceivedto be family-oriented and unwilling to travelBlum & Smith. As many firms become global,promotional paths require an international assignmentfor which many women are not considered Adler,. Women currently represent only  of expatriatemanagers and Adler’s  work suggests that thismay be due to the perception of male managers thatwomen will not be accepted in this role rather thanwomens’ refusal of international assignments. Thus,recent trends in IT towards globalization combined withthe perceptions of womens’ unwillingness or inability totravel may have hampered womens’ chances of beinghired for positions that require travel.Another trend concerns changes in organizationalstructures. Several organizations have flattened theirstructure by eliminating many middle management positionswhich represented promotional opportunities forprofessional women and men who entered these organizationsduring the s and s Blum & Smith,. Empirical evidence linking contextual aspectsof organizations such as existing social structures personneland compensation practices and womens’
advancement in organizations exists. In factBlum et al. found that structural factors accounted for almosthalf of the variation in the percentage of higher managementpositions filled.Specifically in the IT field Fryxell and Lerner analyzed the characteristics of firms that have under-representedgroups in top management positions and thosethat do not. They found that firms engaged in high-techareas needed far more women than the firms in otherfields. Thus:Proposition : Institutional structures will negativelyinfluence womens’ career advancement in the field of IT.Interaction of structural and social factors at careeradvancement stageA lack of adequately experienced women is often citedas the prime reason behind absence of women fromupper management levels. To the extent that this mightbe true leaks in the pipeline at career choice andadvancement stages may contribute to this situation.Stereotypes of women not wanting to travel may lead tolow recruiting of women in high-level positions requiringinternational travel.Men and women in powerful positions can providegreater access to powerful coalitions. Further attainmentof power and critical inter-personal relationships caninturn increase career aspirations. However women missout on these pathways to advancement because a disproportionatelylow number of women in upper managementlevels contribute to a lack of mentors for junior ITprofessionals and acts as a barrier to attainment ofaccess power and higher aspirations Ragins & Sundstrom,.In spite of improvements in favorable social norms aswell as organizational awareness of work–family issues,women are still mostly expected to be primary caretakersin households. A lack of flexible work structures eg notallowing employees to work on their schedule can resultin organizations facing absenteeism. Employers mayexpect them to leave or reduce work hours after childbirth,and thus may not promote them to critical positions.Some women may in fact be discouraged bytheir perception of inequity and may turn to morerewarding roles such as motherhood. All these factorsmay reinforce the stereotype of women being more committedto family than to their employer. Some womenmay try harder to make it up the corporate ladder andthus increase the level of work–family conflict in theirlives which can then lead to negative organizational attitudesand commitment.Based on the above a final proposition pertaining tocareer advancement stage is:Proposition : The relationship between social and structuralbarriers at career advancement stage is likely to berecursive.Contribution and a proposed researchagendaThe model presented here synthesizes the literature relevantto the area of womens’ status of the field of ITand presents a general research agenda of barriers towomens’ entry persistence and advancement. The corecontribution is the movement toward a testable model ofmeasurement and assessment issues involved in thestudy of these barriers.The proposed framework implies three basic researchphases necessary to answer the conceptual empirical andanalytic questions. At the conceptual level it isimportant to assess whether the three stages of careerchoices career persistence and career advancement in ITare distinguishable. The assumption here is that the natureof these barriers is cumulative and incremental thatis women drop out of the computer career pipeline atseveral different points and the entire variance for thisattrition can not be found in one place.At the empirical level adequate measures for factorsinvolved at each stage need to be developed and modifiedto fit the IT field. Fortunately scale developmentshould not be too difficult an issue as general validatedscales for work–family conflict mentoring computeranxiety as well as many other constructs I have discussedalready exist Wiley Gutek et alFrone et al Thomas & Ganster Adams etal.Other factors may be somewhat more difficult to measure,such as female friendly networks. One way thepresence or absence of female friendly network can beassessed will be through examining men and womens’perceptions of the same. The researcher can ask womenif they feel that the social networks are dominated bymen and whether they feel at home in the existing socialnetworks. Similarly researchers could ask men if theyconsider women welcome in the existing social networkswithin a group/department/company. Example ofpotential items for this scale may be: Managers here give feedback and evaluate employeesfairly regardless of the employee’s ethnicity gender age,or social background. In this organizationI feel at ease with people of differentsexes other than my own. I feel like an outsider at the social gatherings in ourdepartment.Many specific empirical questions can be formulatedaround career choice persistence and advancementstages. With regards to career choice and persistence,while educational aspects have received some attentionin the past relatively little attention has been paid tosocial expectations and attitudes that may act as barriersto IT career entry. For the most part this research hasfocused on the effects of computer anxiety. It is
important to examine the sources of anxiety so that preventativeand remedial measures can be taken. One reasonwhy this is the case may be rooted in the difficultyof measurement and need for longitudinal studies. I havehypothesized a mediating effect of attitudes on therelationship between social expectations and womens’choice of IT careers. I call for longitudinal studies to testthese relationships. In the mean time studies based onrecall may guide us towards an understanding of thisarea.To further advance research in this area a model linkingwork–family conflict with attrition and advancementin IT presents a fruitful avenue for research. Potentially,researchers could further test the moderating effect onthis relationship of organizational facilitation of differentcareer paths and other structured support for work–lifebalance. This can be done cross-sectionally to investigatethe effects at each specific stage as well as longitudinallyto examine the cumulative and comparative effects ofwork–family conflict on performance innovativenessand commitment to IT careers.The career advancement phase involves assessing theimpact of mentoring informal structures and organizationalstructures on attrition and womens’ advancement.Study of career advancement has largely been ignoredin the IT literature. Mentoring has been studies extensivelyin organizational literature and designing studiesof mentoring can be achieved based on the existingliterature. New organizational work structures such asflexible work hours alternative career paths and telecommutingare beginning to receive attention. Impacts ofthese on retention and advancement should be assessed.One danger of these flexible work structures may be afurther exclusion from informal networks.It is important to identify contextual variables that aremore conducive to retention and advancement ofwomen. The effects of retention and advancement ofwomen on adoption and implementation of new technologiesneeds to be assessed. I propose that an organizationfeaturing equal participation of women will be moresuccessful in its innovation and implementation efforts.The above is meant to provide illustrations of howindividual barriers can be tested for their influence on theturnover and advancement of women in IT. I encourageresearchers to empirically test the propositions presentedin this paper. Of course many more studies are possibleand needed.The model presents several analytic and methodologicalchallenges. Throughout we have proposed recursiverelationships between social and structural factors. Testingthese types of relationships is an analytical challenge.The way to examine this recursive relationship isthrough longitudinal studies. As with most process modelssuch as this one longitudinal studies are required tocapture the full complexity of the model Mohr.It may be however difficult to conduct a single longitudinalstudy to include all three stages. Stage-wiseinvestigation of variables and processes involved may bemore practical. In planning and implementing empiricalstudies based on this framework future researchers canmake judgments regarding the practicality of the analysisand may chose to conduct either single or a series ofcross-sectional studies or they may chose to conductlongitudinal studies that can allow for testing of causalityamong these factors.This model lends itself to both qualitative methods tostudy the processes and quantitative methods to studythe empirical relationships between variables. Examplesof qualitative methods that can be used are in-depth casestudies  interviews and participant observation. Casestudies and participant observation are suitable for examiningfactors such as organizational climate and its effecton womens’ advancement in the ranks. Researchers canalso interview men and women to identify their perceptionsof the work environment in a given organization.Survey and interview techniques can be utilized to testthe effect of structural factors such as mentoring. Forexample if the employee perceptions of mentoringopportunities available to them can be empirically linkedwith relative advancement of men and women thatwould provide support for part of the model. Finally,experiments can be performed to test the effects of individualbarriers on career choice attitudes learning andadvancement. For example the effect of software orientationson stress levels and learning can be tested usingan experiment.AdditionallyI propose the use of social networkanalysis to identify participation of men and women inthe existing influence networks in the organization.Social network studies have repeatedly proven useful inidentifying informal networks that prevail in organizations.These social networks have been proven to possessmore explanatory power than formal hierarchies.Perhaps the biggest limitation of this model is the difficultyof separating the external influence from individualfreedom. It must be acknowledged that the nature ofthe proposed model is deterministic. The influence ofexternal factors does not imply an absence of individualchoice and control. While I think that the modelpresented here may explain significant variance in thephenomenon it can not explain all variance.Another limitation relates to the significant problempresented by limited applicability of the findings fromprevious gender differences research typically from thes and s. This paper too cannot escape thisproblem. In absence of empirical data to support themodel this problem is further aggravated. As moreresearch is done in this areaI am optimistic that morerelevant literature will become available for futureresearchers.Another issue of concern is the choice of level ofanalysis in testing this model. The individual level of
analysis would appear to be appropriate to test the modelpresented here. However phenomena explored hereoperate at a microas well as macro level and investigatingsuch phenomena can pose difficult questions.In conclusion this paper has presented a frameworkfor examining womens’ choice persistence andadvancement in IT careers. It is believed that it is criticalto consider the reasons for the lack of womens’ participationin this leading-edge industry. Identifying specific
factors responsible for loss of valuable human resources,as outlined in this paper will be useful in guiding policydecisions concerning the performance of women in IT,as well as in helping us fight the labor shortage in theIT industry. In addition to implications for IT laborshortage as Schwartz has suggested ‘womens’ issues arereally business issues’ Shwartz. This paper hasprovided an early step in the direction of increasingwomens’ participation in the IT industry.

Despite the very substantial gains that women have made in the labor market overthe past half-century they remain substantially under represented across a range oftechnical and scientific fields. Although women make up nearly  percent of the laborforce today less than  percent of most engineering professions are female just percent of environmental scientists percent of chemists and  percent of computerand mathematical occupations are female. Given the importance of these technicalfields in our modern economy and the rapid expansion of employment opportunities intechnical occupations the dearth of women in these areas is puzzling from an academicperspective. It is also troubling from a policy perspective since it suggests that thenation’s technical workforce may be failing to fully capture the creative energies that arepotentially available.The reasons why women have made such slow progress in gaining entry intoscience math engineering and technology remain unclear and in some cases quitecontroversial a fact illustrated by the intense debate stimulated after Harvard PresidentLarry Summers speculated at a January  conference on the possibility that 
differences in the distribution of ability among men and women might play some role inthe small numbers of women at the highest levels in science.The dearth of females in technical fields is part of a larger phenomenon ofoccupational segregation by sex. Fuchs p. - for example noted that in the Duncan Index of occupational dissimilarity implied that differences in occupationalsegregation were nearly twice as great by sex as they were by race and had fallen muchmore slowly over the previous  years. Although calculations of the Duncan Indexusing  and  census data show a continued modest decline in sex segregation,they still indicate that it would be necessary for more than  percent of women tochange jobs to achieve an equal distribution of men and women Jacobsen Forthcoming,Table ..Explanations for these occupational differences can be grouped under three broadheadings:  discrimination differences in ability and  choice. Explanationsbased on discrimination presume that women face differential barriers to entry intotechnical fields that discourage their participation. In this view if these barriers could beeliminated women and men would enter technical occupations in equal numbers.Alternatively the barriers that men and women face may be the same but as LarrySummers suggested the distribution of abilities differs between men and women in ways
that make men more productive in technical fields. In this view occupational differencesby gender reflect an efficient allocation of talent across different fields. The thirdexplanation is that women may simply place a different weight on the attractiveness oftechnical occupation than do men. In this view the relatively small number of women intechnical fields reflects a competitive market response by workers with heterogeneoustastes to the differences in characteristics across jobs. This explanation for occupationalchoice is based on the neoclassical theory that workers weigh the benefits both expectedearnings and non pecuniary returns and the costs of a particular occupational choice andwill invest in changing occupations only if that cost-benefit analysis works in their favor.Such an interpretation is consistent with the theoretical framework developed which explains the existence of large interpersonal earningsdifferentials at any point in time to the as the consequence of disequilibrium rents causedby the slow response of individuals to market shocks. Within this framework therelationship between earnings and a wide range of non-productive personalcharacteristics reflects the association of these characteristics with the willingness orability of individuals to respond to market shocks that produce these disequilibrium rents.Developing an empirical strategy to disentangle these three alternatives isextremely challenging. Our goal in this paper is to advance the discussion with a casestudy of Information Technology IT occupations. Based on data we collected from asample of IT professionals and a control group of comparable non-IT professionals wefind that much of the gender gap in IT occupations can be accounted for by differences in
the distribution of vocational interests between men and women.

One reason women may self-select into certain occupations is that they allow for moreinterrupted work lives which female son average tend to prefer. Polachek forexample argued that women may enter certain occupations because the loss of earningsfrom expected absences over time will be minimized.

Specifically we findthat after including a set of measures of occupational personality gender is no longer alarge or statistically significant factor determining the choice between IT and non-ITprofessions. We interpret this to mean that the under representation of women in ITreflects their choice in response to differences in actual or perceived job characteristics.This finding does not rule out the possibility that differences in ability or genderdiscrimination are also factors but it does suggest that more attention needs to be givento how individuals make career choices.In the next section we expand on the relevance and meaning of occupationalpersonality for a model of career choice and set our research within the larger context ofrecent research on the role of behavioral characteristics in the labor market. Next we turnto a description of our data. The fourth section discusses our empirical approach andpresents the results of our estimates. The fifth section discusses the interpretation of ourresults.II. Occupational Personality in the Labor MarketRecent research on labor market outcomes by labor economists sociologists andpsychologists has established the importance of a range of non-cognitive abilities asdeterminants of wages even after controlling for education experience and cognitiveskills. for example use both the Rotter Locus ofControl scale and the Rosenberg Self-Esteem scale as measures of non-cognitive abilityin regressions designed to explain observed schooling salary and variety of other
outcomes. They find that non-cognitive skills are equally as important as cognitive skillsin explaining labor market and behavioral outcomes. find that the Rotter Locus of Control scale is a significantdeterminant of earnings. Kuhn and Weinberger  show that another measure ofnon-cognitive ability leadership also has a significant effect on earnings.Despite growing interest in the role of non-cognitive abilities as a determinant ofwages there has so far been little research by economists into the role that suchcharacteristics might play in explaining patterns of occupational choice. Vocationalpsychologists have however developed a general framework for analyzing career choicefounded on the concept of occupational personality.Vocational counselors have long relied on interest inventories the mostprominent of which is the Strong Interest Inventory to identify individual interests.In an influential series of publicationsHolland  developed a typology ofwork environments and personalities associated with each environment. According toHolland both people and work environments can be classified by their position along sixdimensions or General Occupational Themes. The nature of each theme can besummarized as follows:o The Realistic Theme or R refers to a person’s preference for activities thatentail the explicit  ordered  or systematic manipulation of objects tools,and machines. Realistic types enjoy jobs and activities that involvemechanical manipulations or repairs and construction. They are interested
in action rather than thought and prefer concrete problems to ambiguous,abstract problems. Sample Realistic occupations include auto mechanic,gardener plumber and engineer.o The Investigative Theme or I refers to a person’s preference for activitiesthat entail the systematic or creative investigation of physical biological,and cultural phenomena. Investigative types enjoy gathering information,uncovering new facts or theories and analyzing and interpreting data.They prefer to rely on themselves rather than on others in a group project.Sample Investigative occupations include college professor physician,psychologist and chemist.o The Artistic Theme or A refers to a person’s preference for activities thatare ambiguous free non-systematic and that entail the manipulation ofmaterials to create art forms or products. Artistic types have a great needfor self-expression. They are also comfortable in academic or intellectualenvironments. Sample Artistic occupations include artist lawyer,librarian musician architect reporter and English teacher.o The Social Theme or S refers to a person’s preference to lead others or foractivities that entail the manipulation of others to inform train develop,cure or enlighten. Social types enjoy working with people sharingresponsibilities and being the center of attention. They also like to solveproblems through discussions of feelings and interactions with others.Sample Social occupations include elementary school teacher nurse,social worker and occupational therapist.

The Enterprising Theme or E refers to a person’s preference for activitiesthat entail the manipulation of others to attain organizational goals oreconomic gain. Enterprising types seek positions of power leadership,and status. They like to take financial risks and participate in competitiveactivities. Sample Enterprising occupations include traveling salesperson,buyer realtorsales manager and marketing executive.o The Conventional Theme or C refers to a person’s preference for activitiesthat entail the explicit ordered systematic manipulation of data.Conventional types often enjoy mathematics and data managementactivities. These individuals work well in large organizations but do notshow a distinct preference for or against leadership positions. SampleConventional occupations include bookkeeper accountant banker,actuary and proofreader.These General Occupational Themes are measured using scales derived fromresponses included in interest inventories such as the Strong Interest Inventory.Measurement of each theme is based on responses to approximately  to  questions,and raw scores are normalized relative to a reference population assumed to have a meanscore of  and standard deviation of . These scores thus serve to locate anindividual’s occupational personality within a six-dimensional space. We make use ofthis measurement of occupational personality to identify differences in preferences and toexplore how these preferences influence the choice to enter Information Technologycareers.

Holland’s RIASEC model of occupational personality parallels but is distinctfrom the widely used Five-Factor or Big Five model of general personality seeCampbell and Borgen and is one of the leading frameworks in vocationalpsychology Tracey and Rounds  Campbell and Borgen . There is generalagreement that vocational interests emerge during childhood in response to theinteraction between the individual and his or her environment and become progressivelymore stable through adolescence and stable in early adulthood. A recent meta analysisof studies reporting longitudinal data finds that rank order correlations of interestsincrease from around . for those first tested between ages  and  to over . forthose first evaluated in their mid- to late-twenties Douglas Low et al .III. DataOur data originate in a study of the reasons for the under representation of womenin Information Technology careers. Our methodology followed a quasi-experimentaldesign intended to isolate the effects of occupational personality differences from otherpossible reasons for gender-based differences in career choice. Because we wished tocontrol for differences in career motivation educational attainment and cognitive ability,our sampling scheme was designed to produce a sample of IT professionals and a controlgroup of non-IT professionals who were working in equally demanding careers thatrequired roughly comparable levels of education and skills.Between December  and September  we fielded a survey intended togather information on work and family history educational background interests,attitudes and measures of Holland’s General Occupational Themes from a sample of
professionals in Information Technology and other career fields. We solicitedparticipation in our survey through a variety of channels including several largeorganizations with offices in the central United States and lists of business and computerscience alumni of a large mid-western university. Potential participants were contactedvia e-mail and directed to a secure web-site where they logged-in using a passwordprovided in the contact e-mail. After completing our survey participants were passed toa second web-site operated by Consulting Psychologists Press where they completed theStrong Interest Inventory. To encourage completion of both surveys which we estimatetook - minutes we offered respondents a chance to receive one of several hundred$ gift cards from a large electronics chain store.A total of  individuals completed both parts of the survey. We classified eachrespondent as either an IT or non-IT professional based on their responses to questionsasking them to indicate their current career field one of  categories or “Other” andspecific job title open-ended. There were  non-IT professionals and  ITprofessionals in our sample. The IT professionals include application developers,programmerssoftware engineers database administratorssystems analysts webadministrators and web developers. The non-IT professionals include accountants,auditors CEOs CFOs presidents  consultants  engineers managers  administrators,management analysts scientists technicians nurses teachers etc.Table  reports a number of demographic characteristics for the full sample andfor the IT and non-IT samples separately. More than  percent of the respondents werefemale but the proportion of females in the IT sample at . percent closelyapproximates the US figure of  percent. Women made up about half of the non-IT
sample which is again close to the US figure for ManagementProfessional and Relatedoccupations . percent.In terms of race composition our sample includes relatively few non-whites just. percent and Hispanics just . percent. As we might expect given our samplingcriteria this is a highly educated sample:  percent have completed an advanced degree,another  percent have completed a bachelors degree and close to  percent havecompleted college calculus. The average age for both the IT and non-IT samples is closeto and both samples have had considerable work experience. Both the IT and non-ITsurvey respondents report having worked in their current career fields for more than years and having been with their current employer for about . years. Almost all of therespondents in our sample report holding full-time jobs. They report spending an averageof  weeks per year at their primary occupation less than  percent worked fewer than weeks and working an average of . hours per week.Consistent with the occupational composition of our sample and the educationand experience levels salaries reported are substantially higher than those typical for allworkers in the US. Information about income was collected in terms of relatively broadintervals. Table  summarizes the distribution of income. The median income for thegroup falls in the $,-range and the distributions are approximately the samefor both the IT and non-IT samples.
In addition the table includes average scores on each Themefrom the sample of males and females used to establish the population normsfor each scale. In the general population it is clear that on average men score higherthan women on the Realistic and Investigative themes and lower on the Artistic andSocial themes. Differences on the Enterprising and Conventional Themes are lesspronounced. For the most part the same pattern holds true in our sample except thatwomen score higher than men on the Enterprising and Conventional themes.The question then is whether these differences in occupational personality canhelp account for differences in career choice between IT and other non-IT professionalcareers?
Personality and Career ChoiceAs the summary statistics in Table  make clear women are under represented inInformation Technology Careers in our sample. As a first step to evaluating thisobservation we estimate a simple probit regression in which the dependent variableequals one if the individual is currently working in an IT career and zero otherwise. Webegin with no controls other than gender and then add demographic variables tocondition for the effects of race ethnicity and age. We report these regressions in thefirst two columns of Table . Note that in this table we have expressed all coefficientvalues as marginal effects. For dummy variables the magnitude of the coefficient showsthe effect on the probability of choosing IT when the variable changes from zero to one.

For continuous variables the coefficient is the derivative of the probability functionevaluated at the means of the independent variables.Although the demographic controls have some relationship to the choice of ITcareers it is apparent they don’t have an appreciable impact on the gender effect whichis strong and statistically significant in both formulations. Based on these regressions itappears that other things equal women are approximately  percent less likely to chooseIT careers than are men.In the third column of the table we add scores on the six General OccupationalThemes. It is clear that these occupational personality characteristics are indeed stronglyassociated with career choice decisions. The model fits the data much more close lyasindicated by the decline in the absolute value of the log likelihood and increase in thepseudo R-squared. Both the Realistic and Enterprising scores are highly statistically andeconomically significant. A high value on the Realistic GOT is positively related to thechoice of IT careers and the coefficient implies that the difference in the mean values ofthe Realistic GOT for men and women can explain . percent of the difference in careerchoices or one quarter of the total  percent differential. The difference in meanvalues of the Enterprising GOT meanwhile can explain another  percent of thedifferential in career choices.Inclusion of all six GOTs reduces the effect on the female dummy variable from percent to . percent which is statistically indistinguishable from zero. Thus whilethere may be some residual gender differences in career choices between men andwomen it appears that upon controlling for differences in occupational personality thegender differences are substantially reduced.
One of the persistent facts of gender economics is the high degree of gendersegregation in the workforce. Men and women tend to concentrate in very differentoccupations. There are many potential explanations for this pattern of segregation,including discrimination  differences in ability and choice. By introducing a directmeasure of individual preferences through the use of a widely accepted measure ofoccupational personality and by controlling for factors like educational attainment andattachment to the workforce we are able to directly test the effects of preferences oncareer choices in the specific context of the choice between IT and non-IT professionalcareers.We find that within a sample of full-time employed professional workersdifferences in preferences can explain a large fraction of the apparent underrepresentationof women in Information Technology. In other words much of thedifference in entry into IT is the result of the fact that on average men and women valuedifferent aspects of work and therefore make different career choices. Controlling forthese differences in preferences substantially reduced the differences between men andwomen in the choice of IT careers.Because our research design controls for career motivation education  andcognitive skills we cannot rule out the possibility that discrimination or differences inability also act as filters differentially reducing the entry of women into professionaloccupations more generally. Further work is needed to assess this issue but it is worthobserving that women make up nearly half of our control group so differences in ability
or discrimination cannot be overwhelming barriers to their entry into professionaloccupations. Although we cannot rule out a role for discrimination or differences inability your results indicate that even if these factors could be eliminated women wouldstill be under represented in Information Technology because of differences in theiroccupational preferences relative to men.It is possible of course that the differences in occupational personality that wefind are a product of reverse causation. Work experience may have altered occupationalpreferences. Given the evidence cited earlier on the stability of occupational preferenceswe believe that such effects are likely to be small but given our evidence we cannot ruleout this possibility. Clearly collecting longitudinal data that would allow formeasurement of occupational personality prior to entry into the workforce would bepreferable. Budget limitations prevented us from collecting such data but our resultssuggest that further work along these lines would be highly valuable.Having identified a potential role for occupational personality in accounting forgender differences in labor market outcomes further work on the factors influencing theformation of this element of career preferences also appears to be called for.Occupational personality is not an inherent characteristic but is a complex product of theinteraction between environmental factors and individual characteristics. Thus parentaland family influences as well as educational and social pressures may contribute to thedivergence in patterns of occupational personality between men and women.Understanding how and when these differences emerge appears to be an important topicfor future research especially for those who may wish to increase women’s participationin the nation’s technical workforce.

A conceptual framework of positions on women in ScienceEngineering and TechnologySET was developed showing a chronological progression of the main approaches towomen’s underrepresentation in SET during the past  years. Numerous initiatives havebeen advocated to address women’s underrepresentation in SET in higher education. Thisarticle arose out of one such initiativeWinning Women which was intended to help highereducation in Scotland move toward good practice in this field. Two members of the projectteam describe their key findings and experiences. They illustrate how the underrepresentationof women in SET continues to be both progressive and persistent using a SET parity index.The conceptual framework was conceived and developed from a meta analysis of feministtheories of the gendered politics of science and technology.


